INSERT INTO sat_tests (title, description, test_type, difficulty, length, section, is_official, time_limit_minutes, questions) VALUES ('OpenSAT Math - Hard Set 2','Official-style SAT Math practice (Hard) from OpenSAT — image-free questions only.','math','hard','medium','math',true,38,'[{"id": "opensat-math-mcq-117", "text": "An isosceles right triangle has a hypotenuse of length 58 inches. What is the perimeter, in inches, of this triangle?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["29 StartRoot 2 EndRoot", "58 StartRoot 2 EndRoot", "58 plus 58 StartRoot 2 EndRoot", "58 plus 116 StartRoot 2 EndRoot"], "correct_answer": "C", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice C is correct. Since the triangle is an isosceles right triangle, the two sides that form the right angle must be the same length. Let x be the length, in inches, of each of those sides. The Pythagorean theorem states that in a right triangle, a squared plus b squared equals c squared, where c is the length of the hypotenuse and a and b are the lengths of the other two sides. Substituting x for a, x for b, and 58 for c in this equation yields x squared plus x squared equals 58 squared, or 2 x squared equals 58 squared. Dividing each side of this equation by 2 yields x squared equals StartFraction 58 squared Over 2 EndFraction, or x squared equals StartFraction 2 dot 58 squared Over 4 EndFraction. Taking the square root of each side of this equation yields two solutions: x equals StartFraction 58 StartRoot 2 EndRoot Over 2 EndFraction and x equals minus StartFraction 58 StartRoot 2 EndRoot Over 2 EndFraction. The value of x must be positive because it represents a side length. Therefore, x equals StartFraction 58 StartRoot 2 EndRoot Over 2 EndFraction, or x equals 29 StartRoot 2 EndRoot. The perimeter, in inches, of the triangle is 58 plus x plus x, or 58 plus 2 x. Substituting 29 StartRoot 2 EndRoot for x in this expression gives a perimeter, in inches, of 58 plus 2 left parenthesis 29 StartRoot 2 EndRoot right parenthesis, or 58 plus 58 StartRoot 2 EndRoot.\nChoice A is incorrect. This is the length, in inches, of each of the congruent sides of the triangle, not the perimeter, in inches, of the triangle.\nChoice B is incorrect. This is the sum of the lengths, in inches, of the congruent sides of the triangle, not the perimeter, in inches, of the triangle.\nChoice D is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-119", "text": "x\nf left parenthesis x right parenthesis\n\n1\nnegative 64\n\n2\n0\n\n3\n64\n\nFor the linear function f, the table shows three values of x and their corresponding values of f left parenthesis x right parenthesis. Function f is defined by f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals a x plus b, where a and b are constants. What is the value of a minus b?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["negative 64", "62", "128", "192"], "correct_answer": "D", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice D is correct. The table gives that f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals 0 when x equals 2. Substituting 0 for f left parenthesis x right parenthesis and 2 for x into the equation f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals a x plus byields 0 equals 2 a plus b. Subtracting 2 a from both sides of this equation yields b equals minus 2 a. The table gives that f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals negative 64 when x equals 1. Substituting minus 2 a for b, negative 64 for f left parenthesis x right parenthesis, and 1 for x into the equation f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals a x plus b yields negative 64 equals a left parenthesis 1 right parenthesis plus left parenthesis minus 2 a right parenthesis. Combining like terms yields negative 64 equals negative a, or a equals 64. Since b equals minus 2 a, substituting 64 for a into this equation gives b equals left parenthesis negative 2 right parenthesis left parenthesis 64 right parenthesis, which yields b equals negative 128. Thus, the value of a minus b can be written as 64 minus left parenthesis negative 128 right parenthesis, which is 192.\nChoice A is incorrect. This is the value of a plus b, not a minus b.\nChoice B is incorrect. This is the value of a minus 2, not a minus b.\nChoice C is incorrect. This is the value of 2 a, not a minus b."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-120", "text": "A right triangle has sides of length 2 StartRoot 2 EndRoot, 6 StartRoot 2 EndRoot, and StartRoot 80 EndRoot units. What is the area of the triangle, in square units?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["8 StartRoot 2 EndRoot plus StartRoot 80 EndRoot", "12", "24 StartRoot 80 EndRoot", "24"], "correct_answer": "B", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice B is correct. The area, upper A, of a triangle can be found using the formula upper A equals one half b h, where b is the length of the base of the triangle and h is the height of the triangle. It''s given that the triangle is a right triangle. Therefore, its base and height can be represented by the two legs. It\u2019s also given that the triangle has sides of length 2 StartRoot 2 EndRoot, 6 StartRoot 2 EndRoot, and StartRoot 80 EndRoot units. Since StartRoot 80 EndRoot units is the greatest of these lengths, it''s the length of the hypotenuse. Therefore, the two legs have lengths 2 StartRoot 2 EndRoot and 6 StartRoot 2 EndRoot units. Substituting these values for b and h in the formula upper A equals one half b h gives upper A equals one half left parenthesis 2 StartRoot 2 EndRoot right parenthesis left parenthesis 6 StartRoot 2 EndRoot right parenthesis, which is equivalent to upper A equals 6 StartRoot 4 EndRoot square units, or upper A equals 12 square units.\nChoice A is incorrect. This expression represents the perimeter, rather than the area, of the triangle.\nChoice C is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors. \nChoice D is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-123", "text": "f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals 9,000 left parenthesis 0.66 right parenthesis Superscript x\nThe given function f models the number of advertisements a company sent to its clients each year, where x represents the number of years since 1997, and 0 less than or equals x less than or equals 5. If y equals f left parenthesis x right parenthesis is graphed in the xy-plane, which of the following is the best interpretation of the y-intercept of the graph in this context?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["The minimum estimated number of advertisements the company sent to its clients during the 5 years was 1,708.", "The minimum estimated number of advertisements the company sent to its clients during the 5 years was 9,000.", "The estimated number of advertisements the company sent to its clients in 1997 was 1,708.", "The estimated number of advertisements the company sent to its clients in 1997 was 9,000."], "correct_answer": "D", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice D is correct. The y-intercept of a graph in the xy-plane is the point where x equals 0. For the given function f, the y-intercept of the graph of y equals f left parenthesis x right parenthesis in the xy-plane can be found by substituting 0 for x in the equation y equals 9,000 left parenthesis 0.66 right parenthesis Superscript x, which gives y equals 9,000 left parenthesis 0.66 right parenthesis Superscript 0. This is equivalent to y equals 9,000 left parenthesis 1 right parenthesis, or y equals 9,000. Therefore, the y-intercept of the graph of y equals f left parenthesis x right parenthesis is left parenthesis 0 comma 9,000 right parenthesis. It\u2019s given that the function f models the number of advertisements a company sent to its clients each year. Therefore, f left parenthesis x right parenthesis represents the estimated number of advertisements the company sent to its clients each year. It''s also given that x represents the number of years since 1997. Therefore, x equals 0 represents 0 years since 1997, or 1997. Thus, the best interpretation of the y-intercept of the graph of y equals f left parenthesis x right parenthesis is that the estimated number of advertisements the company sent to its clients in 1997 was 9,000.\nChoice A is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice B is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice C is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-124", "text": "Triangle upper X upper Y upper Z is similar to triangle upper R upper S upper T such that upper X, upper Y, and upper Z correspond to upper R, upper S, and upper T, respectively. The measure of angle upper Z is 20 degree and 2 upper X upper Y equals upper R upper S. What is the measure of angle upper T?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["2 degree", "10 degree", "20 degree", "40 degree"], "correct_answer": "C", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice C is correct. It\u2019s given that triangle upper X upper Y upper Z is similar to triangle upper R upper S upper T, such that upper X, upper Y, and upper Z correspond to upper R, upper S, and upper T, respectively. Since corresponding angles of similar triangles are congruent, it follows that the measure of angle upper Z is congruent to the measure of angle upper T. It\u2019s given that the measure of angle upper Z is 20 degree. Therefore, the measure of angle upper T is 20 degree.\nChoice A is incorrect and may result from a conceptual error.\nChoice B is incorrect. This is half the measure of angle upper Z.\nChoice D is incorrect. This is twice the measure of angle upper Z."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-131", "text": "f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals 9 left parenthesis 4 right parenthesis Superscript x\nThe function f is defined by the given equation. If g left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals f left parenthesis x plus 2 right parenthesis, which of the following equations defines the function g?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["g left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals 18 left parenthesis 4 right parenthesis Superscript x", "g left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals 144 left parenthesis 4 right parenthesis Superscript x", "g left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals 18 left parenthesis 8 right parenthesis Superscript x", "g left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals 81 left parenthesis 16 right parenthesis Superscript x"], "correct_answer": "B", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice B is correct. It\u2019s given that f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals 9 left parenthesis 4 right parenthesis Superscript x and g left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals f left parenthesis x plus 2 right parenthesis. Substituting x plus 2 for x in f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals 9 left parenthesis 4 right parenthesis Superscript x gives f left parenthesis x plus 2 right parenthesis equals 9 left parenthesis 4 right parenthesis Superscript x plus 2. Rewriting this equation using properties of exponents gives f left parenthesis x plus 2 right parenthesis equals 9 left parenthesis 4 right parenthesis Superscript x Baseline left parenthesis 4 right parenthesis squared, which is equivalent to f left parenthesis x plus 2 right parenthesis equals 9 left parenthesis 4 right parenthesis Superscript x Baseline left parenthesis 16 right parenthesis. Multiplying 9 and 16 in this equation gives f left parenthesis x plus 2 right parenthesis equals 144 left parenthesis 4 right parenthesis Superscript x. Since g left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals f left parenthesis x plus 2 right parenthesis, g left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals 144 left parenthesis 4 right parenthesis Superscript x.\nChoice A is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice C is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice D is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-132", "text": "The data for the dot plot are as follows:\n\n22: 5 dots\n23: 4 dots\n24: 3 dots\n25: 2 dots\n26: 1 dot\n\nThe dot plot represents the 15 values in data set A. Data set B is created by adding 56 to each of the values in data set A. Which of the following correctly compares the medians and the ranges of data sets A and B?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["The median of data set B is equal to the median of data set A, and the range of data set B is equal to the range of data set A.", "The median of data set B is equal to the median of data set A, and the range of data set B is greater than the range of data set A.", "The median of data set B is greater than the median of data set A, and the range of data set B is equal to the range of data set A.", "The median of data set B is greater than the median of data set A, and the range of data set B is greater than the range of data set A."], "correct_answer": "C", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice C is correct. The median of a data set with an odd number of values, in ascending or descending order, is the middle value of the data set, and the range of a data set is the positive difference between the maximum and minimum values in the data set. Since the dot plot shown gives the values in data set A in ascending order and there are 15 values in the data set, the eighth value in data set A, 23, is the median. The maximum value in data set A is 26 and the minimum value is 22, so the range of data set A is 26 minus 22, or 4. It\u2019s given that data set B is created by adding 56 to each of the values in data set A. Increasing each of the 15 values in data set A by 56 will also increase its median value by 56 making the median of data set B 79. Increasing each value of data set A by 56 does not change the range, since the maximum value of data set B is 26 plus 56, or 82, and the minimum value is 22 plus 56, or 78, making the range of data set B 82 minus 78, or 4. Therefore, the median of data set B is greater than the median of data set A, and the range of data set B is equal to the range of data set A.\nChoice A is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice B is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice D is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-138", "text": "A business owner plans to purchase the same model of chair for each of the 81 employees. The total budget to spend on these chairs is dollar sign 14,000, which includes a 7 percent sign sales tax. Which of the following is closest to the maximum possible price per chair, before sales tax, the business owner could pay based on this budget?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["dollar sign 148.15", "dollar sign 161.53", "dollar sign 172.84", "dollar sign 184.94"], "correct_answer": "B", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice B is correct. It\u2019s given that a business owner plans to purchase 81 chairs. If p is the price per chair, the total price of purchasing 81 chairs is 81 p. It\u2019s also given that 7 percent sign sales tax is included, which is equivalent to 81 p multiplied by 1.07, or 81 left parenthesis 1.07 right parenthesis p. Since the total budget is dollar sign 14,000, the inequality representing the situation is given by 81 left parenthesis 1.07 right parenthesis p less than or equals 14,000. Dividing both sides of this inequality by 81 left parenthesis 1.07 right parenthesis and rounding the result to two decimal places gives p less than or equals 161.53. To not exceed the budget, the maximum possible price per chair is dollar sign 161.53.\nChoice A is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice C is incorrect. This is the maximum possible price per chair including sales tax, not the maximum possible price per chair before sales tax.\nChoice D is incorrect. This is the maximum possible price if the sales tax is added to the total budget, not the maximum possible price per chair before sales tax."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-139", "text": "The equation x squared plus left parenthesis y minus 2 right parenthesis squared equals 36 represents circle A. Circle B is obtained by shifting circle A down 4 units in the xy-plane. Which of the following equations represents circle B?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["x squared plus left parenthesis y plus 2 right parenthesis squared equals 36", "x squared plus left parenthesis y minus 6 right parenthesis squared equals 36", "left parenthesis x minus 4 right parenthesis squared plus left parenthesis y minus 2 right parenthesis squared equals 36", "left parenthesis x plus 4 right parenthesis squared plus left parenthesis y minus 2 right parenthesis squared equals 36"], "correct_answer": "A", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice A is correct. The standard form of an equation of a circle in the xy-plane is left parenthesis x minus h right parenthesis squared plus left parenthesis y minus k right parenthesis squared equals r squared, where the coordinates of the center of the circle are left parenthesis h comma k right parenthesis and the length of the radius of the circle is r. The equation of circle A, x squared plus left parenthesis y minus 2 right parenthesis squared equals 36, can be rewritten as left parenthesis x minus 0 right parenthesis squared plus left parenthesis y minus 2 right parenthesis squared equals 6 squared. Therefore, the center of circle A is at left parenthesis 0 comma 2 right parenthesis and the length of the radius of circle A is 6. If circle A is shifted down 4 units, the y-coordinate of its center will decrease by 4; the radius of the circle and the x-coordinate of its center will not change. Therefore, the center of circle B is at left parenthesis 0 comma 2 minus 4 right parenthesis, or left parenthesis 0 comma negative 2 right parenthesis, and its radius is 6. Substituting 0 for h, negative 2 for k, and 6 for r in the equation left parenthesis x minus h right parenthesis squared plus left parenthesis y minus k right parenthesis squared equals r squared yields left parenthesis x minus 0 right parenthesis squared plus left parenthesis y minus left parenthesis negative 2 right parenthesis right parenthesis squared equals left parenthesis 6 right parenthesis squared, or x squared plus left parenthesis y plus 2 right parenthesis squared equals 36. Therefore, the equation x squared plus left parenthesis y plus 2 right parenthesis squared equals 36 represents circle B.\nChoice B is incorrect. This equation represents a circle obtained by shifting circle A up, rather than down, 4 units.\nChoice C is incorrect. This equation represents a circle obtained by shifting circle A right, rather than down, 4 units.\nChoice D is incorrect. This equation represents a circle obtained by shifting circle A left, rather than down, 4 units."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-151", "text": "f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals 4 x squared plus 64 x plus 262\nThe function g is defined by g left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals f left parenthesis x plus 5 right parenthesis. For what value of x does g left parenthesis x right parenthesis reach its minimum?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["negative 13", "negative 8", "negative 5", "negative 3"], "correct_answer": "A", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice A is correct. It''s given that g left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals f left parenthesis x plus 5 right parenthesis. Since f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals 4 x squared plus 64 x plus 262, it follows that f left parenthesis x plus 5 right parenthesis equals 4 left parenthesis x plus 5 right parenthesis squared plus 64 left parenthesis x plus 5 right parenthesis plus 262. Expanding the quantity left parenthesis x plus 5 right parenthesis squared in this equation yields f left parenthesis x plus 5 right parenthesis equals 4 left parenthesis x squared plus 10 x plus 25 right parenthesis plus 64 left parenthesis x plus 5 right parenthesis plus 262. Distributing the 4 and the 64 yields f left parenthesis x plus 5 right parenthesis equals 4 x squared plus 40 x plus 100 plus 64 x plus 320 plus 262. Combining like terms yields f left parenthesis x plus 5 right parenthesis equals 4 x squared plus 104 x plus 682. Therefore, g left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals 4 x squared plus 104 x plus 682. For a quadratic function defined by an equation of the form g left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals a left parenthesis x minus h right parenthesis squared plus k, where a, h, and k are constants and a is positive, g left parenthesis x right parenthesis reaches its minimum, k, when the value of x is h. The equation g left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals 4 x squared plus 104 x plus 682 can be rewritten in this form by completing the square. This equation is equivalent to g left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals 4 left parenthesis x squared plus 26 right parenthesis plus 682, or g left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals 4 left parenthesis x squared plus 26 x plus 169 minus 169 right parenthesis plus 682. This equation can be rewritten as g left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals 4 left parenthesis left parenthesis x plus 13 right parenthesis squared minus 169 right parenthesis plus 682, or g left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals 4 left parenthesis x plus 13 right parenthesis squared minus 4 left parenthesis 169 right parenthesis plus 682, which is equivalent to g left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals 4 left parenthesis x plus 13 right parenthesis squared plus 6. This equation is in the form g left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals a left parenthesis x minus h right parenthesis squared plus k, where a equals 4, h equals negative 13, and k equals 6. Therefore, g left parenthesis x right parenthesis reaches its minimum when the value of x is negative 13.\nChoice B is incorrect. This is the value of x for which f left parenthesis x right parenthesis, rather than g left parenthesis x right parenthesis, reaches its minimum.\nChoice C is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice D is incorrect. This is the value of x for which f left parenthesis x minus 5 right parenthesis, rather than f left parenthesis x plus 5 right parenthesis, reaches its minimum."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-152", "text": "Value\nData set A frequency\nData set B frequency\n\n30\n2\n9\n\n34\n4\n7\n\n38\n5\n5\n\n42\n7\n4\n\n46\n9\n2\n\nData set A and data set B each consist of 27 values. The table shows the frequencies of the values for each data set. Which of the following statements best compares the means of the two data sets?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["The mean of data set A is greater than the mean of data set B.", "The mean of data set A is less than the mean of data set B.", "The mean of data set A is equal to the mean of data set B.", "There is not enough information to compare the means of the data sets."], "correct_answer": "A", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice A is correct. The mean value of a data set is the sum of the values of the data set divided by the number of values in the data set. When a data set is represented in a frequency table, the sum of the values in the data set is the sum of the products of each value and its frequency. For data set A, the sum of products of each value and its frequency is 30 left parenthesis 2 right parenthesis plus 34 left parenthesis 4 right parenthesis plus 38 left parenthesis 5 right parenthesis plus 42 left parenthesis 7 right parenthesis plus 46 left parenthesis 9 right parenthesis, or 1,094. It''s given that there are 27 values in data set A. Therefore, the mean of data set A is StartFraction 1,094 Over 27 EndFraction, or approximately 40.52. Similarly, the mean of data B is StartFraction 958 Over 27 EndFraction, or approximately 35.48. Therefore, the mean of data set A is greater than the mean of data set B.\nChoice B is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice C is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice D is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-153", "text": "f left parenthesis t right parenthesis equals 8,000 left parenthesis 0.65 right parenthesis Superscript t\nThe given function f models the number of coupons a company sent to their customers at the end of each year, where t represents the number of years since the end of 1998, and 0 less than or equals t less than or equals 5. If y equals f left parenthesis t right parenthesis is graphed in the ty-plane, which of the following is the best interpretation of the y-intercept of the graph in this context?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["The minimum estimated number of coupons the company sent to their customers during the 5 years was 1,428.", "The minimum estimated number of coupons the company sent to their customers during the 5 years was 8,000.", "The estimated number of coupons the company sent to their customers at the end of 1998 was 1,428.", "The estimated number of coupons the company sent to their customers at the end of 1998 was 8,000."], "correct_answer": "D", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice D is correct. The y-intercept of a graph in the ty-plane is the point where t equals 0. For the given function f, the y-intercept of the graph of y equals f left parenthesis t right parenthesis in the ty-plane can be found by substituting 0 for t in the equation y equals 8,000 left parenthesis 0 period 65 right parenthesis Superscript t, which gives y equals 8,000 left parenthesis 0 period 65 right parenthesis Superscript 0. This is equivalent to y equals 8,000 left parenthesis 1 right parenthesis, or y equals 8,000. Therefore, the y-intercept of the graph of y equals f left parenthesis t right parenthesis is left parenthesis 0 comma 8,000 right parenthesis. It\u2019s given that the function f models the number of coupons a company sent to their customers at the end of each year. Therefore, f left parenthesis t right parenthesis represents the estimated number of coupons the company sent to their customers at the end of each year. It''s also given that t represents the number of years since the end of 1998. Therefore, t equals 0 represents 0 years since the end of 1998, or the end of 1998. Thus, the best interpretation of the y-intercept of the graph of y equals f left parenthesis t right parenthesis is that the estimated number of coupons the company sent to their customers at the end of 1998 was 8,000.\nChoice A is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors. \nChoice B is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors. \nChoice C is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-155", "text": "Which of the following expressions is(are) a factor of 3 x squared plus 20 x minus 63?\n\n x minus 9\n3 x minus 7", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["I only", "II only", "I and II", "Neither I nor II"], "correct_answer": "B", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice B is correct. The given expression can be factored by first finding two values whose sum is 20 and whose product is 3 left parenthesis negative 63 right parenthesis, or negative 189. Those two values are 27 and negative 7. It follows that the given expression can be rewritten as 3 x squared plus 27 x minus 7 x minus 63. Since the first two terms of this expression have a common factor of 3 x and the last two terms of this expression have a common factor of negative 7, this expression can be rewritten as 3 x left parenthesis x plus 9 right parenthesis minus 7 left parenthesis x plus 9 right parenthesis. Since the two terms of this expression have a common factor of left parenthesis x plus 9 right parenthesis, it can be rewritten as left parenthesis 3 x minus 7 right parenthesis left parenthesis x plus 9 right parenthesis. Therefore, expression II, 3 x minus 7, is a factor of 3 x squared plus 20 x minus 63, but expression I, x minus 9, is not a factor of 3 x squared plus 20 x minus 63. \nChoice A is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice C is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice D is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-164", "text": "A sample of oak has a density of 807 kilograms per cubic meter. The sample is in the shape of a cube, where each edge has a length of 0.90 meters. To the nearest whole number, what is the mass, in kilograms, of this sample?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["588", "726", "897", "1,107"], "correct_answer": "A", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice A is correct. It\u2019s given that the sample is in the shape of a cube with edge lengths of 0.9 meters. Therefore, the volume of the sample is 0.90 cubed, or 0.729, cubic meters. It\u2019s also given that the sample has a density of 807 kilograms per 1 cubic meter. Therefore, the mass of this sample is 0.729 cubic meters left parenthesis StartFraction 807 kilograms Over 1 cubic meter EndFraction right parenthesis, or 588.303 kilograms. Rounding this mass to the nearest whole number gives 588 kilograms. Therefore, to the nearest whole number, the mass, in kilograms, of this sample is 588.\nChoice B is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice C is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice D is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-165", "text": "The function f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals one ninth left parenthesis x minus 7 right parenthesis squared plus 3 gives a metal ball''s height above the ground f left parenthesis x right parenthesis, in inches, x seconds after it started moving on a track, where 0 less than or equals x less than or equals 10. Which of the following is the best interpretation of the vertex of the graph of y equals f left parenthesis x right parenthesis in the xy-plane?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["The metal ball''s minimum height was 3 inches above the ground.", "The metal ball''s minimum height was 7 inches above the ground.", "The metal ball''s height was 3 inches above the ground when it started moving.", "The metal ball''s height was 7 inches above the ground when it started moving."], "correct_answer": "A", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice A is correct. The graph of a quadratic equation in the form y equals a left parenthesis x minus h right parenthesis squared plus k, where a, h, and k are positive constants, is a parabola that opens upward with vertex left parenthesis h comma k right parenthesis. The given function f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals one ninth left parenthesis x minus 7 right parenthesis squared plus 3 is in the form y equals a left parenthesis x minus h right parenthesis squared plus k, where y equals f left parenthesis x right parenthesis, a equals one ninth, h equals 7, and k equals 3. Therefore, the graph of y equals f left parenthesis x right parenthesis is a parabola that opens upward with vertex left parenthesis 7 comma 3 right parenthesis. Since the parabola opens upward, the vertex is the lowest point on the graph. It follows that the y-coordinate of the vertex of the graph of y equals f left parenthesis x right parenthesis is the minimum value of f left parenthesis x right parenthesis. Therefore, the minimum value of f left parenthesis x right parenthesis is 3. It\u2019s given that f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals one ninth left parenthesis x minus 7 right parenthesis squared plus 3 represents the metal ball\u2019s height above the ground, in inches, x seconds after it started moving on a track. Therefore, the best interpretation of the vertex of the graph of y equals f left parenthesis x right parenthesis is that the metal ball\u2019s minimum height was 3 inches above the ground.\nChoice B is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice C is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice D is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-166", "text": "Which of the following equations represents a circle in the xy-plane that intersects the y-axis at exactly one point?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["left parenthesis x minus 8 right parenthesis squared plus left parenthesis y minus 8 right parenthesis squared equals 16", "left parenthesis x minus 8 right parenthesis squared plus left parenthesis y minus 4 right parenthesis squared equals 16", "left parenthesis x minus 4 right parenthesis squared plus left parenthesis y minus 9 right parenthesis squared equals 16", "x squared plus left parenthesis y minus 9 right parenthesis squared equals 16"], "correct_answer": "C", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice C is correct. The graph of the equation left parenthesis x minus h right parenthesis squared plus left parenthesis y minus k right parenthesis squared equals r squared in the xy-plane is a circle with center left parenthesis h comma k right parenthesis and a radius of length r. The radius of a circle is the distance from the center of the circle to any point on the circle. If a circle in the xy-plane intersects the y-axis at exactly one point, then the perpendicular distance from the center of the circle to this point on the y-axis must be equal to the length of the circle''s radius. It follows that the x-coordinate of the circle''s center must be equivalent to the length of the circle''s radius. In other words, if the graph of left parenthesis x minus h right parenthesis squared plus left parenthesis y minus k right parenthesis squared equals r squared is a circle that intersects the y-axis at exactly one point, then r equals StartAbsoluteValue h EndAbsoluteValue must be true. The equation in choice C is left parenthesis x minus 4 right parenthesis squared plus left parenthesis y minus 9 right parenthesis squared equals 16, or left parenthesis x minus 4 right parenthesis squared plus left parenthesis y minus 9 right parenthesis squared equals 4 squared. This equation is in the form left parenthesis x minus h right parenthesis squared plus left parenthesis y minus k right parenthesis squared equals r squared, where h equals 4, k equals 9, and r equals 4, and represents a circle in the xy-plane with center left parenthesis 4 comma 9 right parenthesis and radius of length 4. Substituting 4 for r and 4 for h in the equation r equals StartAbsoluteValue h EndAbsoluteValue yields 4 equals StartAbsoluteValue 4 EndAbsoluteValue, or 4 equals 4, which is true. Therefore, the equation in choice C represents a circle in the xy-plane that intersects the y-axis at exactly one point. \nChoice A is incorrect. This is the equation of a circle that does not intersect the y-axis at any point.\nChoice B is incorrect. This is an equation of a circle that intersects the x-axis, not the y-axis, at exactly one point.\nChoice D is incorrect. This is the equation of a circle with the center located on the y-axis and thus intersects the y-axis at exactly two points, not exactly one point."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-170", "text": "Circle upper A has a radius of 3 n and circle upper B has a radius of 129 n, where n is a positive constant. The area of circle upper B is how many times the area of circle upper A?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["43", "86", "129", "1,849"], "correct_answer": "D", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice D is correct. The area of a circle can be found by using the formula upper A equals pi r squared, where upper A is the area and r is the radius of the circle. It\u2019s given that the radius of circle A is 3 n. Substituting this value for r into the formula upper A equals pi r squared gives upper A equals pi left parenthesis 3 n right parenthesis squared, or 9 pi n squared. It\u2019s also given that the radius of circle B is 129 n. Substituting this value for r into the formula upper A equals pi r squared gives upper A equals pi left parenthesis 129 n right parenthesis squared, or 16,641 pi n squared. Dividing the area of circle B by the area of circle A gives StartFraction 16,641 pi n squared Over 9 pi n squared EndFraction, which simplifies to 1,849. Therefore, the area of circle B is 1,849 times the area of circle A.\nChoice A is incorrect. This is how many times greater the radius of circle B is than the radius of circle A.\nChoice B is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice C is incorrect. This is the coefficient on the term that describes the radius of circle B."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-182", "text": "Square P has a side length of x inches. Square Q has a perimeter that is 176 inches greater than the perimeter of square P. The function f gives the area of square Q, in square inches. Which of the following defines f?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals left parenthesis x plus 44 right parenthesis squared", "f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals left parenthesis x plus 176 right parenthesis squared", "f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals left parenthesis 176 x plus 44 right parenthesis squared", "f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals left parenthesis 176 x plus 176 right parenthesis squared"], "correct_answer": "A", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice A is correct. Let x represent the side length, in inches, of square P. It follows that the perimeter of square P is 4 x inches. It''s given that square Q has a perimeter that is 176 inches greater than the perimeter of square P. Thus, the perimeter of square Q is 176 inches greater than 4 x inches, or 4 x plus 176 inches. Since the perimeter of a square is 4 times the side length of the square, each side length of Q is StartFraction 4 x plus 176 Over 4 EndFraction, or x plus 44 inches. Since the area of a square is calculated by multiplying the length of two sides, the area of square Q is left parenthesis x plus 44 right parenthesis left parenthesis x plus 44 right parenthesis, or left parenthesis x plus 44 right parenthesis squared square inches. It follows that function f is defined by f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals left parenthesis x plus 44 right parenthesis squared. \nChoice B is incorrect. This function represents a square with side lengths left parenthesis x plus 176 right parenthesis inches.\nChoice C is incorrect. This function represents a square with side lengths left parenthesis 176 x plus 44 right parenthesis inches.\nChoice D is incorrect. This function represents a square with side lengths left parenthesis 176 x plus 176 right parenthesis inches."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-183", "text": "A cube has an edge length of 68 inches. A solid sphere with a radius of 34 inches is inside the cube, such that the sphere touches the center of each face of the cube. To the nearest cubic inch, what is the volume of the space in the cube not taken up by the sphere?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["149,796", "164,500", "190,955", "310,800"], "correct_answer": "A", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice A is correct. The volume of a cube can be found by using the formula upper V equals s cubed, where upper V is the volume and s is the edge length of the cube. Therefore, the volume of the given cube is upper V equals 68 cubed, or 314,432 cubic inches. The volume of a sphere can be found by using the formula upper V equals four thirds pi r cubed , where upper V is the volume and r is the radius of the sphere. Therefore, the volume of the given sphere is upper V equals four thirds pi left parenthesis 34 right parenthesis cubed, or approximately 164,636 cubic inches. The volume of the space in the cube not taken up by the sphere is the difference between the volume of the cube and volume of the sphere. Subtracting the approximate volume of the sphere from the volume of the cube gives 314,432 minus 164,636 equals 149,796 cubic inches.\nChoice B is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice C is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice D is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-185", "text": "Two identical rectangular prisms each have a height of 90 centimeters left parenthesis cm right parenthesis. The base of each prism is a square, and the surface area of each prism is upper K cm squared. If the prisms are glued together along a square base, the resulting prism has a surface area of StartFraction 92 Over 47 EndFraction upper K cm squared. What is the side length, in cm, of each square base?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["4", "8", "9", "16"], "correct_answer": "B", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice B is correct. Let x represent the side length, in cm, of each square base. If the two prisms are glued together along a square base, the resulting prism has a surface area equal to twice the surface area of one of the prisms, minus the area of the two square bases that are being glued together, which yields 2 upper K minus 2 x squared cm squared . It\u2019s given that this resulting surface area is equal to StartFraction 92 Over 47 EndFraction upper K cm squared, so 2 upper K minus 2 x squared equals StartFraction 92 Over 47 EndFraction upper K. Subtracting StartFraction 92 Over 47 EndFraction upper K from both sides of this equation yields 2 upper K minus StartFraction 92 Over 47 EndFraction upper K minus 2 x squared equals 0. This equation can be rewritten by multiplying 2 upper K on the left-hand side by StartFraction 47 Over 47 EndFraction, which yields StartFraction 94 Over 47 EndFraction upper K minus StartFraction 92 Over 47 EndFraction upper K minus 2 x squared equals 0, or two forty sevenths upper K minus 2 x squared equals 0. Adding 2 x squared to both sides of this equation yields two forty sevenths upper K equals 2 x squared. Multiplying both sides of this equation by StartFraction 47 Over 2 EndFraction yields upper K equals 47 x squared. The surface area upper K, in cm Superscript 2, of each rectangular prism is equivalent to the sum of the areas of the two square bases and the areas of the four lateral faces. Since the height of each rectangular prism is 90 cm and the side length of each square base is x cm, it follows that the area of each square base is x squared cm squared and the area of each lateral face is 90 x cm squared. Therefore, the surface area of each rectangular prism can be represented by the expression 2 x squared plus 4 left parenthesis 90 x right parenthesis, or 2 x squared plus 360 x. Substituting this expression for upper K in the equation upper K equals 47 x squared yields 2 x squared plus 360 x equals 47 x squared. Subtracting 2 x squared and 360 x from both sides of this equation yields 0 equals 45 x squared minus 360 x. Factoring x from the right-hand side of this equation yields 0 equals x left parenthesis 45 x minus 360 right parenthesis. Applying the zero product property, it follows that x equals 0 and 45 x minus 360 equals 0. Adding 360 to both sides of the equation 45 x minus 360 equals 0 yields 45 x equals 360. Dividing both sides of this equation by 45 yields x equals 8. Since a side length of a rectangular prism can\u2019t be 0, the length of each square base is 8 cm.\nChoice A is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice C is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice D is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-186", "text": "Triangle upper A upper B upper C is similar to triangle upper D upper E upper F, where upper A corresponds to upper D and upper C corresponds to upper F. Angles upper C and upper F are right angles. If tangent left parenthesis upper A right parenthesis equals StartRoot 3 EndRoot and upper D upper F equals 125, what is the length of line segment upper D upper E?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["125 StartFraction StartRoot 3 EndRoot Over 3 EndFraction", "125 StartFraction StartRoot 3 EndRoot Over 2 EndFraction", "125 StartRoot 3 EndRoot", "250"], "correct_answer": "D", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice D is correct. Corresponding angles in similar triangles have equal measures. It''s given that triangle upper A upper B upper C is similar to triangle upper D upper E upper F, where upper A corresponds to upper D, so the measure of angle upper A is equal to the measure of angle upper D. Therefore, if tangent left parenthesis upper A right parenthesis equals StartRoot 3 EndRoot, then tangent left parenthesis upper D right parenthesis equals StartRoot 3 EndRoot. It''s given that angles upper C and upper F are right angles, so triangles upper A upper B upper C and upper D upper E upper F are right triangles. The adjacent side of an acute angle in a right triangle is the side closest to the angle that is not the hypotenuse. It follows that the adjacent side of angle upper D is side upper D upper F. The opposite side of an acute angle in a right triangle is the side across from the acute angle. It follows that the opposite side of angle upper D is side upper E upper F. The tangent of an acute angle in a right triangle is the ratio of the length of the opposite side to the length of the adjacent side. Therefore, tangent left parenthesis upper D right parenthesis equals StartFraction upper E upper F Over upper D upper F EndFraction. If upper D upper F equals 125, the length of side upper E upper F can be found by substituting StartRoot 3 EndRoot for tangent left parenthesis upper D right parenthesis and 125 for upper D upper F in the equation tangent left parenthesis upper D right parenthesis equals StartFraction upper E upper F Over upper D upper F EndFraction, which yields StartRoot 3 EndRoot equals StartFraction upper E upper F Over 125 EndFraction. Multiplying both sides of this equation by 125 yields 125 StartRoot 3 EndRoot equals upper E upper F. Since the length of side upper E upper F is StartRoot 3 EndRoot times the length of side upper D upper F, it follows that triangle upper D upper E upper F is a special right triangle with angle measures 30 degree, 60 degree, and 90 degree. Therefore, the length of the hypotenuse, line segment upper D upper E, is 2 times the length of side upper D upper F, or upper D upper E equals 2 left parenthesis upper D upper F right parenthesis. Substituting 125 for upper D upper F in this equation yields upper D upper E equals 2 left parenthesis 125 right parenthesis, or upper D upper E equals 250. Thus, if tangent left parenthesis upper A right parenthesis equals StartRoot 3 EndRoot and upper D upper F equals 125, the length of line segment upper D upper E is 250.\nChoice A is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice B is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice C is incorrect. This is the length of line segment upper E upper F, not line segment upper D upper E."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-187", "text": "Store A sells raspberries for dollar sign 5.50 per pint and blackberries for dollar sign 3.00 per pint. Store B sells raspberries for dollar sign 6.50 per pint and blackberries for dollar sign 8.00 per pint. A certain purchase of raspberries and blackberries would cost dollar sign 37.00 at Store A or dollar sign 66.00 at Store B. How many pints of blackberries are in this purchase?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["4", "5", "8", "12"], "correct_answer": "B", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice C is correct. It\u2019s given that store A sells raspberries for dollar sign 5 period 50 per pint and blackberries for dollar sign 3 period 00 per pint, and a certain purchase of raspberries and blackberries at store A would cost dollar sign 37 period 00. It\u2019s also given that store B sells raspberries for dollar sign 6 period 50 per pint and blackberries for dollar sign 8 period 00 per pint, and this purchase of raspberries and blackberries at store B would cost dollar sign 66 period 00. Let r represent the number of pints of raspberries and b represent the number of pints of blackberries in this purchase. The equation 5 period 50 r plus 3 period 00 b equals 37 period 00 represents this purchase of raspberries and blackberries from store A and the equation 6 period 50 r plus 8 period 00 b equals 66 period 00 represents this purchase of raspberries and blackberries from store B. Solving the system of equations by elimination gives the value of r and the value of b that make the system of equations true. Multiplying both sides of the equation for store A by 6.5 yields left parenthesis 5 period 50 r right parenthesis left parenthesis 6 period 5 right parenthesis plus left parenthesis 3 period 00 b right parenthesis left parenthesis 6 period 5 right parenthesis equals left parenthesis 37 period 00 right parenthesis left parenthesis 6 period 5 right parenthesis, or 35 period 75 r plus 19 period 5 b equals 240 period 5. Multiplying both sides of the equation for store B by 5.5 yields left parenthesis 6 period 50 r right parenthesis left parenthesis 5 period 5 right parenthesis plus left parenthesis 8 period 00 b right parenthesis left parenthesis 5 period 5 right parenthesis equals left parenthesis 66 period 00 right parenthesis left parenthesis 5 period 5 right parenthesis, or 35 period 75 r plus 44 b equals 363. Subtracting both sides of the equation for store A, 35 period 75 r plus 19 period 5 b equals 240 period 5, from the corresponding sides of the equation for store B, 35 period 75 r plus 44 b equals 363, yields left parenthesis 35 period 75 r minus 35 period 75 r right parenthesis plus left parenthesis 44 b minus 19 period 5 b right parenthesis equals left parenthesis 363 minus 240 period 5 right parenthesis, or 24 period 5 b equals 122 period 5. Dividing both sides of this equationby 24.5 yields b equals 5. Thus, 5 pints of blackberries are inthis purchase.\nChoices A and B are incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors. Choice D is incorrect. This is the number of pints of raspberries, not blackberries, in the purchase."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-189", "text": "One gallon of paint will cover 220 square feet of a surface. A room has a total wall area of w square feet. Which equation represents the total amount of paint upper P, in gallons, needed to paint the walls of the room twice?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["upper P equals StartFraction w Over 110 EndFraction", "upper P equals 440 w", "upper P equals StartFraction w Over 220 EndFraction", "upper P equals 220 w"], "correct_answer": "A", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice A is correct. It''s given that w represents the total wall area, in square feet. Since the walls of the room will be painted twice, the amount of paint, in gallons, needs to cover 2 w square feet. It\u2019s also given that one gallon of paint will cover 220 square feet. Dividing the total area, in square feet, of the surface to be painted by the number of square feet covered by one gallon of paint gives the number of gallons of paint that will be needed. Dividing 2 w by 220 yields StartFraction 2 w Over 220 EndFraction, or StartFraction w Over 110 EndFraction. Therefore, the equation that represents the total amount of paint upper P, in gallons, needed to paint the walls of the room twice is upper P equals StartFraction w Over 110 EndFraction.\nChoice B is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice C is incorrect and may result from finding the amount of paint needed to paint the walls once rather than twice.\nChoice D is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-194", "text": "A data set of 27 different numbers has a mean of 33 and a median of 33. A new data set is created by adding 7 to each number in the original data set that is greater than the median and subtracting 7 from each number in the original data set that is less than the median. Which of the following measures does NOT have the same value in both the original and new data sets?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["Median", "Mean", "Sum of the numbers", "Standard deviation"], "correct_answer": "D", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice D is correct. When a data set has an odd number of elements, the median can be found by ordering the values from least to greatest and determining the middle value. Out of the 27 different numbers in this data set, 13 numbers are below the median, one number is exactly 33, and 13 numbers are above the median. When 7 is subtracted from each number below the median and added to each number above the median, the data spread out from the median. Since the median of this data set, 33, is equivalent to the mean of the data set, the data also spread out from the mean. Since standard deviation is a measure of how spread out the data are from the mean, a greater spread from the mean indicates an increased standard deviation.Choice A is incorrect. All the numbers less than the median decrease and all the numbers greater than the median increase, but the median itself doesn\u2019t change. Choices B and C are incorrect. The mean of a data set is found by dividing the sum of the values by the number of values. The net change from subtracting 7 from 13 numbers and adding 7 to 13 numbers is zero. Therefore, neither the mean nor the sum of the numbers changes."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-195", "text": "upper R upper S equals 20\nupper S upper T equals 48\nupper T upper R equals 52\nThe side lengths of right triangle upper R upper S upper T are given. Triangle upper R upper S upper T is similar to triangle upper U upper V upper W, where upper S corresponds to upper V and upper T corresponds to upper W. What is the value of tangent upper W?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["five thirteenths", "five twelfths", "StartFraction 12 Over 13 EndFraction", "StartFraction 12 Over 5 EndFraction"], "correct_answer": "B", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice B is correct. It''s given that right triangle upper R upper S upper T is similar to triangle upper U upper V upper W, where upper S corresponds to upper V and upper T corresponds to upper W. It''s given that the side lengths of the right triangle upper R upper S upper T are upper R upper S equals 20, upper S upper T equals 48, and upper T upper R equals 52. Corresponding angles in similar triangles are equal. It follows that the measure of angle upper T is equal to the measure of angle upper W. The hypotenuse of a right triangle is the longest side. It follows that the hypotenuse of triangle upper R upper S upper T is side upper T upper R. The hypotenuse of a right triangle is the side opposite the right angle. Therefore, angle upper S is a right angle. The adjacent side of an acute angle in a right triangle is the side closest to the angle that is not the hypotenuse. It follows that the adjacent side of angle upper T is side upper S upper T. The opposite side of an acute angle in a right triangle is the side across from the acute angle. It follows that the opposite side of angle upper T is side upper R upper S. The tangent of an acute angle in a right triangle is the ratio of the length of the opposite side to the length of the adjacent side. Therefore, tangent upper T equals StartFraction upper R upper S Over upper S upper T EndFraction. Substituting 20 for upper R upper S and 48 for upper S upper T in this equation yields tangent upper T equals StartFraction 20 Over 48 EndFraction, or tangent upper T equals five twelfths. The tangents of two acute angles with equal measures are equal. Since the measure of angle upper T is equal to the measure of angle upper W, it follows that tangent upper T equals tangent upper W. Substituting five twelfths for tangent upper T in this equation yields five twelfths equals tangent upper W. Therefore, the value of tangent upper W is five twelfths.\nChoice A is incorrect. This is the value of sine upper W.\nChoice C is incorrect. This is the value of cosine upper W.\nChoice D is incorrect. This is the value of StartFraction 1 Over tangent upper W EndFraction."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-203", "text": "2 x plus 3 y equals 710 x plus 15 y equals 35\nFor each real number r, which of the following points lies on the graph of each equation in the xy-plane for the given system?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["left parenthesis StartFraction r Over 5 EndFraction plus 7 comma minus StartFraction r Over 5 EndFraction plus 35 right parenthesis", "left parenthesis minus StartFraction 3 r Over 2 EndFraction plus seven halves comma r right parenthesis", "left parenthesis r comma StartFraction 2 r Over 3 EndFraction plus seven thirds right parenthesis", "left parenthesis r comma minus StartFraction 3 r Over 2 EndFraction plus seven halves right parenthesis"], "correct_answer": "B", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice B is correct. The two given equations are equivalent because the second equation can be obtained from the first equation by multiplying each side of the equation by 5. Thus, the graphs of the equations are coincident, so if a point lies on the graph of one of the equations, it also lies on the graph of the other equation. A point left parenthesis x comma y right parenthesis lies on the graph of an equation in the xy-plane if and only if this point represents a solution to the equation. It is sufficient, therefore, to find the point that represents a solution to the first given equation. Substituting the x- and y-coordinates of choice B, minus StartFraction 3 r Over 2 EndFraction plus seven halves and r, for x and y, respectively, in the first equation yields 2 left parenthesis minus StartFraction 3 r Over 2 EndFraction plus seven halves right parenthesis plus 3 r equals 7, which is equivalent to minus 3 r plus 7 plus 3 r equals 7, or 7 equals 7. Therefore, the point left parenthesis minus StartFraction 3 r Over 2 EndFraction plus seven halves comma r right parenthesis represents a solution to the first equation and thus lies on the graph of each equation in the xy-plane for the given system.\nChoice A is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice C is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice D is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-206", "text": "upper F left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals nine fifths left parenthesis x minus 273.15 right parenthesis plus 32\nThe function upper F gives the temperature, in degrees Fahrenheit, that corresponds to a temperature of x kelvins. If a temperature increased by 2.10 kelvins, by how much did the temperature increase, in degrees Fahrenheit?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["3.78", "35.78", "487.89", "519.89"], "correct_answer": "A", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice A is correct. It\u2019s given that the function upper F left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals nine fifths left parenthesis x minus 273.15 right parenthesis plus 32 gives the temperature, in degrees Fahrenheit, that corresponds to a temperature of x kelvins. A temperature that increased by 2.10 kelvins means that the value of x increased by 2.10 kelvins. It follows that an increase in x by 2.10 increases upper F left parenthesis x right parenthesis by nine fifths left parenthesis 2.10 right parenthesis, or 3.78. Therefore, if a temperature increased by 2.10 kelvins, the temperature increased by 3.78 degrees Fahrenheit.\nChoice B is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice C is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice D is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors."}]'::jsonb);
INSERT INTO sat_tests (title, description, test_type, difficulty, length, section, is_official, time_limit_minutes, questions) VALUES ('OpenSAT Math - Hard Set 3','Official-style SAT Math practice (Hard) from OpenSAT — image-free questions only.','math','hard','medium','math',true,38,'[{"id": "opensat-math-mcq-209", "text": "Function f is defined by f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals left parenthesis x plus 6 right parenthesis left parenthesis x plus 5 right parenthesis left parenthesis x plus 1 right parenthesis. Function g is defined by g left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals f left parenthesis x minus 1 right parenthesis. The graph of y equals g left parenthesis x right parenthesis in the xy-plane has x-intercepts at left parenthesis a comma 0 right parenthesis, left parenthesis b comma 0 right parenthesis, and left parenthesis c comma 0 right parenthesis, where a, b, and c are distinct constants. What is the value of a plus b plus c?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["negative 15", "negative 9", "11", "15"], "correct_answer": "B", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice B is correct. It''s given that g left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals f left parenthesis x minus 1 right parenthesis. Since f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals left parenthesis x plus 6 right parenthesis left parenthesis x plus 5 right parenthesis left parenthesis x plus 1 right parenthesis, it follows that f left parenthesis x minus 1 right parenthesis equals left parenthesis x minus 1 plus 6 right parenthesis left parenthesis x minus 1 plus 5 right parenthesis left parenthesis x minus 1 plus 1 right parenthesis. Combining like terms yields f left parenthesis x minus 1 right parenthesis equals left parenthesis x plus 5 right parenthesis left parenthesis x plus 4 right parenthesis left parenthesis x right parenthesis. Therefore, g left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals x left parenthesis x plus 5 right parenthesis left parenthesis x plus 4 right parenthesis. The x-intercepts of a graph in the xy-plane are the points where y equals 0. The x-coordinates of the x-intercepts of the graph of y equals g left parenthesis x right parenthesis in the xy-plane can be found by solving the equation 0 equals x left parenthesis x plus 5 right parenthesis left parenthesis x plus 4 right parenthesis. Applying the zero product property to this equation yields three equations: x equals 0, x plus 5 equals 0, and x plus 4 equals 0. Solving each of these equations for x yields x equals 0, x equals negative 5, and x equals negative 4, respectively. Therefore, the x-intercepts of the graph of y equals g left parenthesis x right parenthesis are left parenthesis 0 comma 0 right parenthesis, left parenthesis negative 5 comma 0 right parenthesis, and left parenthesis negative 4 comma 0 right parenthesis. It follows that the values of a, b, and c are 0, negative 5, and negative 4. Thus, the value of a plus b plus c is 0 plus left parenthesis negative 5 right parenthesis plus left parenthesis negative 4 right parenthesis, which is equal to negative 9.\nChoice A is incorrect. This is the value of a plus b plus c if g left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals f left parenthesis x plus 1 right parenthesis.\nChoice C is incorrect. This is the value of a plus b plus c minus 1 if g left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals left parenthesis x minus 6 right parenthesis left parenthesis x minus 5 right parenthesis left parenthesis x minus 1 right parenthesis.\nChoice D is incorrect. This is the value of a plus b plus c if f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals left parenthesis x minus 6 right parenthesis left parenthesis x minus 5 right parenthesis left parenthesis x minus 1 right parenthesis."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-214", "text": "When the quadratic function f is graphed in the xy-plane, where y equals f left parenthesis x right parenthesis, its vertex is left parenthesis negative 3 comma 6 right parenthesis. One of the x-intercepts of this graph is left parenthesis negative StartFraction 17 Over 4 EndFraction comma 0 right parenthesis. What is the other x-intercept of the graph?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["left parenthesis negative StartFraction 29 Over 4 EndFraction comma 0 right parenthesis", "left parenthesis negative seven fourths comma 0 right parenthesis", "left parenthesis five fourths comma 0 right parenthesis", "left parenthesis StartFraction 17 Over 4 EndFraction comma 0 right parenthesis"], "correct_answer": "B", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice B is correct. Since the line of symmetry for the graph of a quadratic function contains the vertex of the graph, the x-coordinate of the vertex of the graph of y equals f left parenthesis x right parenthesis is the x-coordinate of the midpoint of its two x-intercepts. The midpoint of two points with x-coordinates x 1 and x 2 has x-coordinate x Subscript m, where x Subscript m Baseline equals StartFraction x 1 plus x 2 Over 2 EndFraction. It\u2032s given that the vertex is left parenthesis negative 3 comma 6 right parenthesis and one of the x-intercepts is left parenthesis negative StartFraction 17 Over 4 EndFraction comma 0 right parenthesis. Substituting negative 3 for x Subscript m and negative StartFraction 17 Over 4 EndFraction for x 1 in the equation x Subscript m Baseline equals StartFraction x 1 plus x 2 Over 2 EndFraction yields negative 3 equals StartStartFraction negative StartFraction 17 Over 4 EndFraction plus x 2 OverOver 2 EndEndFraction. Multiplying each side of this equation by 2 yields negative 6 equals negative StartFraction 17 Over 4 EndFraction plus x 2. Adding StartFraction 17 Over 4 EndFraction to each side of this equation yields negative seven fourths equals x 2. Therefore, the other x-intercept is left parenthesis negative seven fourths comma 0 right parenthesis. \nChoice A is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice C is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice D is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-226", "text": "The cost of renting a backhoe for up to 10 days is dollar sign 270 for the first day and dollar sign 135 for each additional day. Which of the following equations gives the cost y, in dollars, of renting the backhoe for x days, where x is a positive integer and x less than or equals 10?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["y equals 270 x minus 135", "y equals 270 x plus 135", "y equals 135 x plus 270", "y equals 135 x plus 135"], "correct_answer": "D", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice D is correct. It''s given that the cost of renting a backhoe for up to 10 days is dollar sign 270 for the first day and dollar sign 135 for each additional day. Therefore, the cost y, in dollars, for x days, where x less than or equals 10, is the sum of the cost for the first day, dollar sign 270, and the cost for the additional x minus 1 days, dollar sign 135 left parenthesis x minus 1 right parenthesis. It follows that y equals 270 plus 135 left parenthesis x minus 1 right parenthesis, which is equivalent to y equals 270 plus 135 x minus 135, or y equals 135 x plus 135.\nChoice A is incorrect. This equation represents a situation where the cost of renting a backhoe is dollar sign 135 for the first day and dollar sign 270 for each additional day.\nChoice B is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice C is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-228", "text": "A certain town has an area of 4.36 square miles. What is the area, in square yards, of this town? left parenthesis 1 mile equals 1,760 yards right parenthesis", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["404", "7,674", "710,459", "13,505,536"], "correct_answer": "D", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice D is correct. Since the number of yards in 1 mile is 1,760, the number of square yards in 1 square mile is left parenthesis 1,760 right parenthesis left parenthesis 1,760 right parenthesis equals 3,097,600. Therefore, if the area of the town is 4.36 square miles, it is 4.36 left parenthesis 3,097,600 right parenthesis equals 13,505,536, in square yards.\nChoice A is incorrect and may result from dividing the number of yards in a mile by the square mileage of the town.\nChoice B is incorrect and may result from multiplying the number of yards in a mile by the square mileage of the town.\nChoice C is incorrect and may result from dividing the number of square yards in a square mile by the square mileage of the town."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-232", "text": "minus 3 x plus 21 p x equals 84\nIn the given equation, p is a constant. The equation has no solution. What is the value of p?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["0", "one seventh", "four thirds", "4"], "correct_answer": "B", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice B is correct. A linear equation in one variable has no solution if and only if the equation is false; that is, when there is no value of x that produces a true statement. It''s given that in the equation minus 3 x plus 21 p x equals 84, p is a constant and the equation has no solution for x. Therefore, the value of the constant p is one that results in a false equation. Factoring out the common factor of minus 3 x on the left-hand side of the given equation yields minus 3 x left parenthesis 1 minus 7 p right parenthesis equals 84. Dividing both sides of this equation by negative 3 yields x left parenthesis 1 minus 7 p right parenthesis equals negative 28. Dividing both sides of this equation by left parenthesis 1 minus 7 p right parenthesis yields x equals StartFraction negative 28 Over 1 minus 7 p EndFraction. This equation is false if and only if 1 minus 7 p equals 0. Adding 7 p to both sides of 1 minus 7 p equals 0 yields 1 equals 7 p. Dividing both sides of this equation by 7 yields one seventh equals p. It follows that the equation x equals StartFraction negative 28 Over 1 minus 7 p EndFraction is false if and only if p equals one seventh. Therefore, the given equation has no solution if and only if the value of p is one seventh.\nChoice A is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice C is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice D is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-233", "text": "StartFraction 14 x Over 7 y EndFraction equals 2 StartRoot w plus 19 EndRoot\nThe given equation relates the distinct positive real numbers w, x, and y. Which equation correctly expresses w in terms of x and y?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["w equals StartRoot StartFraction x Over y EndFraction EndRoot minus 19", "w equals StartRoot StartFraction 28 x Over 14 y EndFraction EndRoot minus 19", "w equals left parenthesis StartFraction x Over y EndFraction right parenthesis squared minus 19", "w equals left parenthesis StartFraction 28 x Over 14 y EndFraction right parenthesis squared minus 19"], "correct_answer": "C", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice C is correct. Dividing each side of the given equation by 2 yields StartFraction 14 x Over 14 y EndFraction equals StartFraction 2 StartRoot w plus 19 EndRoot Over 2 EndFraction, or StartFraction x Over y EndFraction equals StartRoot w plus 19 EndRoot. Because it''s given that each of the variables is positive, squaring each side of this equation yields the equivalent equation left parenthesis StartFraction x Over y EndFraction right parenthesis squared equals w plus 19. Subtracting 19 from each side of this equation yields left parenthesis StartFraction x Over y EndFraction right parenthesis squared minus 19 equals w, or w equals left parenthesis StartFraction x Over y EndFraction right parenthesis squared minus 19.\nChoice A is incorrect. This equation isn''t equivalent to the given equation. \nChoice B is incorrect. This equation isn''t equivalent to the given equation. \nChoice D is incorrect. This equation isn''t equivalent to the given equation."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-234", "text": "Data set F consists of 55 integers between 170 and 290. Data set G consists of all the integers in data set F as well as the integer 10. Which of the following must be less for data set F than for data set G?\n\nThe mean\nThe median", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["I only", "II only", "I and II", "Neither I nor II"], "correct_answer": "D", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice D is correct. It''s given that data set F consists of 55 integers between 170 and 290 and data set G consists of all the integers in data set F as well as the integer 10. Since the integer 10 is less than all the integers in data set F, the mean of data set G must be less than the mean of data set F. Thus, the mean of data set F isn''t less than the mean of data set G. When a data set is in ascending order, the median is between the two middle values when there is an even number of values and the median is the middle value when there is an odd number of values. It follows that the median of data set F is either greater than or equal to the median of data set G. Therefore, the median of data set F isn''t less than the median of data set G. Thus, neither the mean nor the median must be less for data set F than for data set G.\nChoice A is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice B is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice C is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-235", "text": "StartFraction x squared Over StartRoot x squared minus c squared EndRoot EndFraction equals StartFraction c squared Over StartRoot x squared minus c squared EndRoot EndFraction plus 39\nIn the given equation, c is a positive constant. Which of the following is one of the solutions to the given equation?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["negative c", "minus c squared minus 39 squared", "minus StartRoot 39 squared minus c squared EndRoot", "minus StartRoot c squared plus 39 squared EndRoot"], "correct_answer": "D", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice D is correct. If x squared minus c squared less than or equals 0, then neither side of the given equation is defined and there can be no solution. Therefore, x squared minus c squared greater than 0. Subtracting StartFraction c squared Over StartRoot x squared minus c squared EndRoot EndFraction from both sides of the given equation yields StartFraction x squared Over StartRoot x squared minus c squared EndRoot EndFraction minus StartFraction c squared Over StartRoot x squared minus c squared EndRoot EndFraction equals 39, or StartFraction x squared minus c squared Over StartRoot x squared minus c squared EndRoot EndFraction equals 39. Squaring both sides of this equation yields left parenthesis StartFraction x squared minus c squared Over StartRoot x squared minus c squared EndRoot EndFraction right parenthesis squared equals 39 squared, or StartFraction left parenthesis x squared minus c squared right parenthesis left parenthesis x squared minus c squared right parenthesis Over x squared minus c squared EndFraction equals 39 squared. Since x squared minus c squared is positive and, therefore, nonzero, the expression StartFraction x squared minus c squared Over x squared minus c squared EndFraction is defined and equivalent to 1. It follows that the equation StartFraction left parenthesis x squared minus c squared right parenthesis left parenthesis x squared minus c squared right parenthesis Over x squared minus c squared EndFraction equals 39 squared can be rewritten as left parenthesis StartFraction x squared minus c squared Over x squared minus c squared EndFraction right parenthesis left parenthesis x squared minus c squared right parenthesis equals 39 squared, or left parenthesis 1 right parenthesis left parenthesis x squared minus c squared right parenthesis equals 39 squared, which is equivalent to x squared minus c squared equals 39 squared. Adding c squared to both sides of this equation yields x squared equals c squared plus 39 squared. Taking the square root of both sides of this equation yields two solutions: x equals StartRoot c squared plus 39 squared EndRoot and x equals minus StartRoot c squared plus 39 squared EndRoot. Therefore, of the given choices, minus StartRoot c squared plus 39 squared EndRoot is one of the solutions to the given equation.\nChoice A is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice B is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice C is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-237", "text": "A quadratic function models a projectile''s height, in meters, above the ground in terms of the time, in seconds, after it was launched. The model estimates that the projectile was launched from an initial height of 7 meters above the ground and reached a maximum height of 51.1 meters above the ground 3 seconds after the launch. How many seconds after the launch does the model estimate that the projectile will return to a height of 7 meters?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["3", "6", "7", "9"], "correct_answer": "B", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice B is correct. It''s given that a quadratic function models the projectile''s height, in meters, above the ground in terms of the time, in seconds, after it was launched. It follows that an equation representing the model can be written in the form f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals a left parenthesis x minus h right parenthesis squared plus k, where f left parenthesis x right parenthesis is the projectile''s estimated height above the ground, in meters, x seconds after the launch, a is a constant, and k is the maximum height above the ground, in meters, the model estimates the projectile reached h seconds after the launch. It''s given that the model estimates the projectile reached a maximum height of 51.1 meters above the ground 3 seconds after the launch. Therefore, k equals 51.1 and h equals 3. Substituting 51.1 for k and 3 for h in the equation f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals a left parenthesis x minus h right parenthesis squared plus k yields f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals a left parenthesis x minus 3 right parenthesis squared plus 51.1. It''s also given that the model estimates that the projectile was launched from an initial height of 7 meters above the ground. Therefore, when x equals 0, f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals 7. Substituting 0 for x and 7 for f left parenthesis x right parenthesis in the equation f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals a left parenthesis x minus 3 right parenthesis squared plus 51.1 yields 7 equals a left parenthesis 0 minus 3 right parenthesis squared plus 51.1, or 7 equals 9 a plus 51.1. Subtracting 51.1 from both sides of this equation yields negative 44.1 equals 9 a. Dividing both sides of this equation by 9 yields negative 4.9 equals a. Substituting negative 4.9 for a in the equation f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals a left parenthesis x minus 3 right parenthesis squared plus 51.1 yields f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals minus 4.9 left parenthesis x minus 3 right parenthesis squared plus 51.1. Therefore, the equation f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals minus 4.9 left parenthesis x minus 3 right parenthesis squared plus 51.1 models the projectile''s height, in meters, above the ground x seconds after it was launched. The number of seconds after the launch that the model estimates that the projectile will return to a height of 7 meters is the value of x when f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals 7. Substituting 7 for f left parenthesis x right parenthesis in f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals minus 4.9 left parenthesis x minus 3 right parenthesis squared plus 51.1 yields 7 equals minus 4.9 left parenthesis x minus 3 right parenthesis squared plus 51.1. Subtracting 51.1 from both sides of this equation yields negative 44.1 equals minus 4.9 left parenthesis x minus 3 right parenthesis squared. Dividing both sides of this equation by negative 4.9 yields 9 equals left parenthesis x minus 3 right parenthesis squared. Taking the square root of both sides of this equation yields two equations: 3 equals x minus 3 and negative 3 equals x minus 3. Adding 3 to both sides of the equation 3 equals x minus 3 yields 6 equals x. Adding 3 to both sides of the equation negative 3 equals x minus 3 yields 0 equals x. Since 0 seconds after the launch represents the time at which the projectile was launched, 6 must be the number of seconds the model estimates that the projectile will return to a height of 7 meters.\nAlternate approach: It''s given that a quadratic function models the projectile''s height, in meters, above the ground in terms of the time, in seconds, after it was launched. It''s also given that the model estimates that the projectile was launched from an initial height of 7 meters above the ground and reached a maximum height of 51.1 meters above the ground 3 seconds after the launch. Since the model is quadratic, and quadratic functions are symmetric, the model estimates that for any given height less than the maximum height, the time the projectile takes to travel from the given height to the maximum height is the same as the time the projectile takes to travel from the maximum height back to the given height. Thus, since the model estimates the projectile took 3 seconds to travel from 7 meters above the ground to its maximum height of 51.1 meters above the ground, the model also estimates the projectile will take 3 more seconds to travel from its maximum height of 51.1 meters above the ground back to 7 meters above the ground. Thus, the model estimates that the projectile will return to a height of 7 meters 3 seconds after it reaches its maximum height, which is 6 seconds after the launch.\nChoice A is incorrect. The model estimates that 3 seconds after the launch, the projectile reached a height of 51.1 meters, not 7 meters.\nChoice C is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice D is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-245", "text": "A window repair specialist charges dollar sign 220 for the first two hours of repair plus an hourly fee for each additional hour. The total cost for 5 hours of repair is dollar sign 400. Which function f gives the total cost, in dollars, for x hours of repair, where x greater than or equals 2?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals 60 x plus 100", "f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals 60 x plus 220", "f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals 80 x", "f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals 80 x plus 220"], "correct_answer": "A", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice A is correct. It\u2019s given that the window repair specialist charges dollar sign 220 for the first two hours of repair plus an hourly fee for each additional hour. Let n represent the hourly fee for each additional hour after the first two hours. Since it\u2019s given that x is the number of hours of repair, it follows that the charge generated by the hourly fee after the first two hours can be represented by the expression n left parenthesis x minus 2 right parenthesis. Therefore, the total cost, in dollars, for x hours of repair is f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals 220 plus n left parenthesis x minus 2 right parenthesis. It\u2019s given that the total cost for 5 hours of repair is dollar sign 400. Substituting 5 for x and 400 for f left parenthesis x right parenthesis into the equation f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals 220 plus n left parenthesis x minus 2 right parenthesis yields 400 equals 220 plus n left parenthesis 5 minus 2 right parenthesis, or 400 equals 220 plus 3 n. Subtracting 220 from both sides of this equation yields 180 equals 3 n. Dividing both sides of this equation by 3 yields n equals 60. Substituting 60 for n in the equation f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals 220 plus n left parenthesis x minus 2 right parenthesis yields f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals 220 plus 60 left parenthesis x minus 2 right parenthesis, which is equivalent to f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals 220 plus 60 x minus 120, or f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals 60 x plus 100. Therefore, the total cost, in dollars, for x hours of repair is f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals 60 x plus 100.\nChoice B is incorrect. This function represents the total cost, in dollars, for x hours of repair where the specialist charges dollar sign 340, rather than dollar sign 220, for the first two hours of repair.\nChoice C is incorrect. This function represents the total cost, in dollars, for x hours of repair where the specialist charges dollar sign 160, rather than dollar sign 220, for the first two hours of repair, and an hourly fee of dollar sign 80, rather than dollar sign 60, after the first two hours.\nChoice D is incorrect. This function represents the total cost, in dollars, for x hours of repair where the specialist charges dollar sign 380, rather than dollar sign 220, for the first two hours of repair, and an hourly fee of dollar sign 80, rather than dollar sign 60, after the first two hours."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-247", "text": "The first term of a sequence is 9. Each term after the first is 4 times the preceding term. If w represents the nth term of the sequence, which equation gives w in terms of n?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["w equals 4 left parenthesis 9 Superscript n Baseline right parenthesis", "w equals 4 left parenthesis 9 Superscript n minus 1 Baseline right parenthesis", "w equals 9 left parenthesis 4 Superscript n Baseline right parenthesis", "w equals 9 left parenthesis 4 Superscript n minus 1 Baseline right parenthesis"], "correct_answer": "D", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice D is correct. Since w represents the nth term of the sequence and 9 is the first term of the sequence, the value of w is 9 when the value of n is 1. Since each term after the first is 4 times the preceding term, the value of w is 9 left parenthesis 4 right parenthesis when the value of n is 2. Therefore, the value of w is 9 left parenthesis 4 right parenthesis left parenthesis 4 right parenthesis, or 9 left parenthesis 4 right parenthesis squared, when the value of n is 3. More generally, the value of w is 9 left parenthesis 4 Superscript n minus 1 Baseline right parenthesis for a given value of n. Therefore, the equation w equals 9 left parenthesis 4 Superscript n minus 1 Baseline right parenthesis gives w in terms of n.\nChoice A is incorrect. This equation describes a sequence for which the first term is 36, rather than 9, and each term after the first is 9, rather than 4, times the preceding term. \nChoice B is incorrect. This equation describes a sequence for which the first term is 4, rather than 9, and each term after the first is 9, rather than 4, times the preceding term.\nChoice C is incorrect. This equation describes a sequence for which the first term is 36, rather than 9."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-250", "text": "In a study of cell phone use, 799 randomly selected US teens were asked how often they talked on a cell phone and about their texting behavior. The data are summarized in the table above. Based on the data from the study, an estimate of the percent of US teens who are heavy texters is 30% and the associated margin of error is 3%. Which of the following is a correct statement based on the given margin of error?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["Approximately 3% of the teens in the study who are classified as heavy texters are not really heavy texters.", "It is not possible that the percent of all US teens who are heavy texters is less than 27%.", "The percent of all US teens who are heavy texters is 33%.", "It is doubtful that the percent of all US teens who are heavy texters is 35%."], "correct_answer": "D", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice D is correct. The given margin of error of 3% indicates that the actual percent of all US teens who are heavy texters is likely within 3% of the estimate of 30%, or between 27% and 33%. Therefore, it is unlikely, or doubtful, that the percent of all US teens who are heavy texters would be 35%.Choice A is incorrect. The margin of error doesn\u2019t provide any information about the accuracy of reporting in the study. Choice B is incorrect. Based on the estimate and given margin of error, it is unlikely that the percent of all US teens who are heavy texters would be less than 27%, but it is possible. Choice C is incorrect. While the percent of all US teens who are heavy texters is likely between 27% and 33%, any value within this interval is equally likely. We can\u2019t be certain that the value is exactly 33%."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-251", "text": "f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals left parenthesis x minus 10 right parenthesis left parenthesis x plus 13 right parenthesis\nThe function f is defined by the given equation. For what value of x does f left parenthesis x right parenthesis reach its minimum?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["negative 130", "negative 13", "negative StartFraction 23 Over 2 EndFraction", "negative three halves"], "correct_answer": "D", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice D is correct. It''s given that f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals left parenthesis x minus 10 right parenthesis left parenthesis x plus 13 right parenthesis, which can be rewritten as f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals x squared plus 3 x minus 130. Since the coefficient of the x squared-term is positive, the graph of y equals f left parenthesis x right parenthesis in the xy-plane opens upward and reaches its minimum value at its vertex. The x-coordinate of the vertex is the value of x such that f left parenthesis x right parenthesis reaches its minimum. For an equation in the form f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals a x squared plus b x plus c, where a, b, and c are constants, the x-coordinate of the vertex is minus StartFraction b Over 2 a EndFraction. For the equation f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals x squared plus 3 x minus 130, a equals 1, b equals 3, and c equals negative 130. It follows that the x-coordinate of the vertex is minus StartFraction 3 Over 2 left parenthesis 1 right parenthesis EndFraction, or negative three halves. Therefore, f left parenthesis x right parenthesis reaches its minimum when the value of x is negative three halves.\nAlternate approach: The value of x for the vertex of a parabola is the x-value of the midpoint between the two x-intercepts of the parabola. Since it\u2019s given that f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals left parenthesis x minus 10 right parenthesis left parenthesis x plus 13 right parenthesis, it follows that the two x-intercepts of the graph of y equals f left parenthesis x right parenthesis in the xy-plane occur when x equals 10 and x equals negative 13, or at the points left parenthesis 10 comma 0 right parenthesis and left parenthesis negative 13 comma 0 right parenthesis. The midpoint between two points, left parenthesis x 1 comma y 1 right parenthesis and left parenthesis x 2 comma y 2 right parenthesis, is left parenthesis StartFraction x 1 plus x 2 Over 2 EndFraction comma StartFraction y 1 plus y 2 Over 2 EndFraction right parenthesis. Therefore, the midpoint between left parenthesis 10 comma 0 right parenthesis and left parenthesis negative 13 comma 0 right parenthesis is left parenthesis StartFraction 10 plus left parenthesis negative 13 right parenthesis Over 2 EndFraction comma StartFraction 0 plus 0 Over 2 EndFraction right parenthesis, or left parenthesis negative three halves comma 0 right parenthesis. It follows that f left parenthesis x right parenthesis reaches its minimum when the value of x is negative three halves.\nChoice A is incorrect. This is the y-coordinate of the y-intercept of the graph of y equals f left parenthesis x right parenthesis in the xy-plane.\nChoice B is incorrect. This is one of the x-coordinates of the x-intercepts of the graph of y equals f left parenthesis x right parenthesis in the xy-plane.\nChoice C is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-253", "text": "*{stroke-linecap:butt;stroke-linejoin:round;}\n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n\nThe line slants gradually down from left to right.\nThe line passes through the following points:\n\n(negative 8 comma 4)\n(0 comma 2)\n(8 comma 0)\n\nThe graph of y equals f left parenthesis x right parenthesis plus 14 is shown. Which equation defines function f?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals negative one fourth x minus 12", "f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals negative one fourth x plus 16", "f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals negative one fourth x plus 2", "f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals negative one fourth x minus 14"], "correct_answer": "A", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice A is correct. An equation for the graph shown can be written in slope-intercept form y equals m x plus b, where m is the slope of the graph and its y-intercept is left parenthesis 0 comma b right parenthesis. Since the y-intercept of the graph shown is left parenthesis 0 comma 2 right parenthesis, the value of b is 2. Since the graph also passes through the point left parenthesis 4 comma 1 right parenthesis, the slope can be calculated as StartFraction 1 minus 2 Over 4 minus 0 EndFraction, or negative one fourth. Therefore, the value of m is negative one fourth. Substituting negative one fourth for m and 2 for b in the equation y equals m x plus b yields y equals minus one fourth x plus 2. It\u2019s given that an equation for the graph shown is y equals f left parenthesis x right parenthesis plus 14. Substituting f left parenthesis x right parenthesis plus 14 for y in the equation y equals minus one fourth x plus 2 yields f left parenthesis x right parenthesis plus 14 equals minus one fourth x plus 2. Subtracting 14 from both sides of this equation yields f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals minus one fourth x minus 12.\nChoice B is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice C is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice D is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-259", "text": "f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals left parenthesis x minus 14 right parenthesis left parenthesis x plus 19 right parenthesis\nThe function f is defined by the given equation. For what value of x does f left parenthesis x right parenthesis reach its minimum?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["negative 266", "negative 19", "negative StartFraction 33 Over 2 EndFraction", "negative five halves"], "correct_answer": "D", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice D is correct. It''s given that f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals left parenthesis x minus 14 right parenthesis left parenthesis x plus 19 right parenthesis, which can be rewritten as f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals x squared plus 5 x minus 266. Since the coefficient of the x squared-term is positive, the graph of y equals f left parenthesis x right parenthesis in the xy-plane opens upward and reaches its minimum value at its vertex. The x-coordinate of the vertex is the value of x such that f left parenthesis x right parenthesis reaches its minimum. For an equation in the form f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals a x squared plus b x plus c, where a, b, and c are constants, the x-coordinate of the vertex is minus StartFraction b Over 2 a EndFraction. For the equation f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals x squared plus 5 x minus 266, a equals 1, b equals 5, and c equals negative 266. It follows that the x-coordinate of the vertex is minus StartFraction 5 Over 2 left parenthesis 1 right parenthesis EndFraction, or negative five halves. Therefore, f left parenthesis x right parenthesis reaches its minimum when the value of x is negative five halves.\nAlternate approach: The value of x for the vertex of a parabola is the x-value of the midpoint between the two x-intercepts of the parabola. Since it\u2019s given that f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals left parenthesis x minus 14 right parenthesis left parenthesis x plus 19 right parenthesis, it follows that the two x-intercepts of the graph of y equals f left parenthesis x right parenthesis in the xy-plane occur when x equals 14 and x equals negative 19, or at the points left parenthesis 14 comma 0 right parenthesis and left parenthesis negative 19 comma 0 right parenthesis. The midpoint between two points, left parenthesis x 1 comma y 1 right parenthesis and left parenthesis x 2 comma y 2 right parenthesis, is left parenthesis StartFraction x 1 plus x 2 Over 2 EndFraction comma StartFraction y 1 plus y 2 Over 2 EndFraction right parenthesis. Therefore, the midpoint between left parenthesis 14 comma 0 right parenthesis and left parenthesis negative 19 comma 0 right parenthesis is left parenthesis StartFraction 14 plus left parenthesis negative 19 right parenthesis Over 2 EndFraction comma StartFraction 0 plus 0 Over 2 EndFraction right parenthesis, or left parenthesis negative five halves comma 0 right parenthesis. It follows that f left parenthesis x right parenthesis reaches its minimum when the value of x is negative five halves.\nChoice A is incorrect. This is the y-coordinate of the y-intercept of the graph of y equals f left parenthesis x right parenthesis in the xy-plane.\nChoice B is incorrect. This is one of the x-coordinates of the x-intercepts of the graph of y equals f left parenthesis x right parenthesis in the xy-plane.\nChoice C is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-261", "text": "The figure shown is a right circular cylinder with a radius of r and height of h. A second right circular cylinder (not shown) has a volume that is 392 times as large as the volume of the cylinder shown. Which of the following could represent the radius upper R, in terms of r, and the height upper H, in terms of h, of the second cylinder?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["upper R equals 8 r and upper H equals 7 h", "upper R equals 8 r and upper H equals 49 h", "upper R equals 7 r and upper H equals 8 h", "upper R equals 49 r and upper H equals 8 h"], "correct_answer": "C", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice C is correct. The volume of a right circular cylinder is equal to pi a squared b, where a is the radius of a base of the cylinder and b is the height of the cylinder. It\u2019s given that the cylinder shown has a radius of r and a height of h. It follows that the volume of the cylinder shown is equal to pi r squared h. It\u2019s given that the second right circular cylinder has a radius of upper R and a height of upper H. It follows that the volume of the second cylinder is equal to pi upper R squared upper H. Choice C gives upper R equals 7 r and upper H equals 8 h. Substituting 7 r for upper R and 8 h for upper H in the expression that represents the volume of the second cylinder yields pi left parenthesis 7 r right parenthesis squared left parenthesis 8 h right parenthesis, or pi left parenthesis 49 r squared right parenthesis left parenthesis 8 h right parenthesis, which is equivalent to pi left parenthesis 392 r squared h right parenthesis, or 392 left parenthesis pi r squared h right parenthesis. This expression is equal to 392 times the volume of the cylinder shown, pi r squared h. Therefore, upper R equals 7 r and upper H equals 8 h could represent the radius upper R, in terms of r, and the height upper H, in terms of h, of the second cylinder.\nChoice A is incorrect. Substituting 8 r for upper R and 7 h for upper H in the expression that represents the volume of the second cylinder yields pi left parenthesis 8 r right parenthesis squared left parenthesis 7 h right parenthesis, or pi left parenthesis 64 r squared right parenthesis left parenthesis 7 h right parenthesis, which is equivalent to pi left parenthesis 448 r squared h right parenthesis, or 448 left parenthesis pi r squared h right parenthesis. This expression is equal to 448, not 392, times the volume of the cylinder shown. \nChoice B is incorrect. Substituting 8 r for upper R and 49 h for upper H in the expression that represents the volume of the second cylinder yields pi left parenthesis 8 r right parenthesis squared left parenthesis 49 h right parenthesis, or pi left parenthesis 64 r squared right parenthesis left parenthesis 49 h right parenthesis, which is equivalent to pi left parenthesis 3,136 r squared h right parenthesis, or 3,136 left parenthesis pi r squared h right parenthesis. This expression is equal to 3,136, not 392, times the volume of the cylinder shown.\nChoice D is incorrect. Substituting 49 r for upper R and 8 h for upper H in the expression that represents the volume of the second cylinder yields pi left parenthesis 49 r right parenthesis squared left parenthesis 8 h right parenthesis, or pi left parenthesis 2,401 r squared right parenthesis left parenthesis 8 h right parenthesis, which is equivalent to pi left parenthesis 19,208 r squared h right parenthesis, or 19,208 left parenthesis pi r squared h right parenthesis. This expression is equal to 19,208, not 392, times the volume of the cylinder shown."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-275", "text": "In the xy-plane, the graph of the equation y equals minus x squared plus 9 x minus 100 intersects the line y equals c at exactly one point. What is the value of c?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["negative StartFraction 481 Over 4 EndFraction", "negative 100", "negative StartFraction 319 Over 4 EndFraction", "negative nine halves"], "correct_answer": "C", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice C is correct. In the xy-plane, the graph of the line y equals c is a horizontal line that crosses the y-axis at y equals c and the graph of the quadratic equation y equals minus x squared plus 9 x minus 100 is a parabola. A parabola can intersect a horizontal line at exactly one point only at its vertex. Therefore, the value of c should be equal to the y-coordinate of the vertex of the graph of the given equation. For a quadratic equation in vertex form, y equals a left parenthesis x minus h right parenthesis squared plus k, the vertex of its graph in the xy-plane is left parenthesis h comma k right parenthesis. The given quadratic equation, y equals minus x squared plus 9 x minus 100, can be rewritten as y equals minus left parenthesis x squared minus 2 left parenthesis nine halves right parenthesis x plus left parenthesis nine halves right parenthesis squared right parenthesis plus left parenthesis nine halves right parenthesis squared minus 100, or y equals minus left parenthesis x minus nine halves right parenthesis squared plus left parenthesis negative StartFraction 319 Over 4 EndFraction right parenthesis. Thus, the value of c is equal to negative StartFraction 319 Over 4 EndFraction.\nChoice A is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice B is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice D is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-277", "text": "Poll Results\n\nAngel Cruz\n483\n\nTerry Smith\n320\n\nThe table shows the results of a poll. A total of 803 voters selected at random were asked which candidate they would vote for in the upcoming election. According to the poll, if 6,424 people vote in the election, by how many votes would Angel Cruz be expected to win?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["163", "1,304", "3,864", "5,621"], "correct_answer": "B", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice B is correct. It''s given that 483 out of 803 voters responded that they would vote for Angel Cruz. Therefore, the proportion of voters from the poll who responded they would vote for Angel Cruz is StartFraction 483 Over 803 EndFraction. It\u2019s also given that there are a total of 6,424 voters in the election. Therefore, the total number of people who would be expected to vote for Angel Cruz is 6,424 left parenthesis StartFraction 483 Over 803 EndFraction right parenthesis, or 3,864. Since 3,864 of the 6,424 total voters would be expected to vote for Angel Cruz, it follows that 6,424 minus 3,864, or 2,560 voters would be expected not to vote for Angel Cruz. The difference in the number of votes for and against Angel Cruz is 3,864 minus 2,560, or 1,304 votes. Therefore, if 6,424 people vote in the election, Angel Cruz would be expected to win by 1,304 votes.\nChoice A is incorrect. This is the difference in the number of voters from the poll who responded that they would vote for and against Angel Cruz.\nChoice C is incorrect. This is the total number of people who would be expected to vote for Angel Cruz.\nChoice D is incorrect. This is the difference between the total number of people who vote in the election and the number of voters from the poll."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-280", "text": "8 x plus y equals negative 11\n2 x squared equals y plus 341\nThe graphs of the equations in the given system of equations intersect at the point left parenthesis x comma y right parenthesis in the x y-plane. What is a possible value of x?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["negative 15", "negative 11", "2", "8"], "correct_answer": "A", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice A is correct. It''s given that the graphs of the equations in the given system of equations intersect at the point left parenthesis x comma y right parenthesis. Therefore, this intersection point is a solution to the given system. The solution can be found by isolating y in each equation. The given equation 8 x plus y equals negative 11 can be rewritten to isolate y by subtracting 8 x from both sides of the equation, which gives y equals minus 8 x minus 11. The given equation 2 x squared equals y plus 341 can be rewritten to isolate y by subtracting 341 from both sides of the equation, which gives 2 x squared minus 341 equals y. With each equation solved for y, the value of y from one equation can be substituted into the other, which gives 2 x squared minus 341 equals minus 8 x minus 11. Adding 8 x and 11 to both sides of this equation results in 2 x squared plus 8 x minus 330 equals 0. Dividing both sides of this equation by 2 results in x squared plus 4 x minus 165 equals 0. This equation can be rewritten by factoring the left-hand side, which yields left parenthesis x plus 15 right parenthesis left parenthesis x minus 11 right parenthesis equals 0. By the zero-product property, if left parenthesis x plus 15 right parenthesis left parenthesis x minus 11 right parenthesis equals 0, then left parenthesis x plus 15 right parenthesis equals 0, or left parenthesis x minus 11 right parenthesis equals 0. It follows that x equals negative 15, or x equals 11. Since only negative 15 is given as a choice, a possible value of x is negative 15. \nChoice B is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice C is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice D is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-281", "text": "The triangle inequality theorem states that the sum of any two sides of a triangle must be greater than the length of the third side. If a triangle has side lengths of 6 and 12, which inequality represents the possible lengths, x, of the third side of the triangle?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["x less than 18", "x greater than 18", "6 less than x less than 18", "x less than 6 or x greater than 18"], "correct_answer": "C", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice C is correct. It\u2019s given that a triangle has side lengths of 6 and 12, and x represents the length of the third side of the triangle. It\u2019s also given that the triangle inequality theorem states that the sum of any two sides of a triangle must be greater than the length of the third side. Therefore, the inequalities 6 plus x greater than 12, 6 plus 12 greater than x, and 12 plus x greater than 6 represent all possible values of x. Subtracting 6 from both sides of the inequality 6 plus x greater than 12 yields x greater than 12 minus 6, or x greater than 6. Adding 6 and 12 in the inequality 6 plus 12 greater than x yields 18 greater than x, or x less than 18. Subtracting 12 from both sides of the inequality 12 plus x greater than 6 yields x greater than 6 minus 12, or x greater than negative 6. Since all x-values that satisfy the inequality x greater than 6 also satisfy the inequality x greater than negative 6, it follows that the inequalities x greater than 6 and x less than 18 represent the possible values of x. Therefore, the inequality 6 less than x less than 18 represents the possible lengths, x, of the third side of the triangle.\nChoice A is incorrect. This inequality gives the upper bound for x but does not include its lower bound.\nChoice B is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice D is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-284", "text": "Two investments were made as shown in the table above. The interest in Account A is compounded once per year. Which of the following is true about the investments?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["Account A always earns more money per year than Account B.", "Account A always earns less money per year than Account B.", "Account A earns more money per year than Account B at first but eventually earns less money per year.", "Account A earns less money per year than Account B at first but eventually earns more money per year."], "correct_answer": "A", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice A is correct. Account A starts with $500 and earns interest at 6% per year, so in the first year Account A earns (500)(0.06) = $30, which is greater than the $25 that Account B earns that year. Compounding interest can be modeled by an increasing exponential function, so each year Account A will earn more money than it did the previous year. Therefore, each year Account A earns at least $30 in interest. Since Account B always earns $25 each year, Account A always earns more money per year than Account B.Choices B and D are incorrect. Account A earns $30 in the first year, which is greater than the $25 Account B earns in the first year. Therefore, neither the statement that Account A always earns less money per year than Account B nor the statement that Account A earns less money than Account B at first can be true. Choice C is incorrect. Since compounding interest can be modeled by an increasing exponential function, each year Account A will earn more money than it did the previous year. Therefore, Account A always earns at least $30 per year, which is more than the $25 per year that Account B earns."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-294", "text": "In triangles upper A upper B upper C and upper D upper E upper F, angles upper B and upper E each have measure 27 degree and angles upper C and upper F each have measure 41 degree. Which additional piece of information is sufficient to determine whether triangle upper A upper B upper C is congruent to triangle upper D upper E upper F?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["The measure of angle upper A", "The length of side upper A upper B", "The lengths of sides upper B upper C and upper E upper F", "No additional information is necessary."], "correct_answer": "C", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice C is correct. Since angles upper B and upper E each have the same measure and angles upper C and upper F each have the same measure, triangles upper A upper B upper C and upper D upper E upper F are similar, where side upper B upper C corresponds to side upper E upper F. To determine whether two similar triangles are congruent, it is sufficient to determine whether one pair of corresponding sides are congruent. Therefore, to determine whether triangles upper A upper B upper C and upper D upper E upper F are congruent, it is sufficient to determine whether sides upper B upper C and upper E upper F have equal length. Thus, the lengths of upper B upper C and upper E upper F are sufficient to determine whether triangle upper A upper B upper C is congruent to triangle upper D upper E upper F.\nChoice A is incorrect and may result from conceptual errors.\nChoice B is incorrect and may result from conceptual errors.\nChoice D is incorrect. The given information is sufficient to determine that triangles upper A upper B upper C and upper D upper E upper F are similar, but not whether they are congruent."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-295", "text": "upper F left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals nine fifths left parenthesis x minus 273.15 right parenthesis plus 32\nThe function upper F gives the temperature, in degrees Fahrenheit, that corresponds to a temperature of x kelvins. If a temperature increased by 9.10 kelvins, by how much did the temperature increase, in degrees Fahrenheit?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["16.38", "48.38", "475.29", "507.29"], "correct_answer": "A", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice A is correct. It\u2019s given that the function upper F left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals nine fifths left parenthesis x minus 273.15 right parenthesis plus 32 gives the temperature, in degrees Fahrenheit, that corresponds to a temperature of x kelvins. A temperature that increased by 9.10 kelvins means that the value of x increased by 9.10 kelvins. It follows that an increase in x by 9.10 increases upper F left parenthesis x right parenthesis by nine fifths left parenthesis 9.10 right parenthesis, or 16.38. Therefore, if a temperature increased by 9.10 kelvins, the temperature increased by 16.38 degrees Fahrenheit. \nChoice B is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice C is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice D is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-296", "text": "A machine launches a softball from ground level. The softball reaches a maximum height of 51.84 meters above the ground at 1.8 seconds and hits the ground at 3.6 seconds. Which equation represents the height above ground h, in meters, of the softball t seconds after it is launched?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["h equals minus t squared plus 3.6", "h equals minus t squared plus 51.84", "h equals minus 16 left parenthesis t minus 1.8 right parenthesis squared minus 3.6", "h equals minus 16 left parenthesis t minus 1.8 right parenthesis squared plus 51.84"], "correct_answer": "D", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice D is correct. An equation representing the height above ground h, in meters, of a softball t seconds after it is launched by a machine from ground level can be written in the form h equals minus a left parenthesis t minus b right parenthesis squared plus c, where a, b, and c are positive constants. In this equation, b represents the time, in seconds, at which the softball reaches its maximum height of c meters above the ground. It''s given that this softball reaches a maximum height of 51.84 meters above the ground at 1.8 seconds; therefore, b equals 1.8 and c equals 51.84. Substituting 1.8 for b and 51.84 for c in the equation h equals minus a left parenthesis t minus b right parenthesis squared plus c yields h equals minus a left parenthesis t minus 1.8 right parenthesis squared plus 51.84. It''s also given that this softball hits the ground at 3.6 seconds; therefore, h equals 0 when t equals 3.6. Substituting 0 for h and 3.6 for t in the equation h equals minus a left parenthesis t minus 1.8 right parenthesis squared plus 51.84 yields 0 equals minus a left parenthesis 3.6 minus 1.8 right parenthesis squared plus 51.84, which is equivalent to 0 equals minus a left parenthesis 1.8 right parenthesis squared plus 51.84, or 0 equals minus 3.24 a plus 51.84. Adding 3.24 a to both sides of this equation yields 3.24 a equals 51.84. Dividing both sides of this equation by 3.24 yields a equals 16. Substituting 16 for a in the equation h equals minus a left parenthesis t minus 1.8 right parenthesis squared plus 51.84 yields h equals minus 16 left parenthesis t minus 1.8 right parenthesis squared plus 51.84. Therefore, h equals minus 16 left parenthesis t minus 1.8 right parenthesis squared plus 51.84 represents the height above ground h, in meters, of this softball t seconds after it is launched.\nChoice A is incorrect. This equation represents a situation where the maximum height is 3.6 meters above the ground at 0 seconds, not 51.84 meters above the ground at 1.8 seconds.\nChoice B is incorrect. This equation represents a situation where the maximum height is 51.84 meters above the ground at 0 seconds, not 1.8 seconds.\nChoice C is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-298", "text": "y equals 6 x plus 18\nOne of the equations in a system of two linear equations is given. The system has no solution. Which equation could be the second equation in the system?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["minus 6 x plus y equals 18", "minus 6 x plus y equals 22", "minus 12 x plus y equals 36", "minus 12 x plus y equals 18"], "correct_answer": "B", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice B is correct. A system of two linear equations in two variables, x and y, has no solution if the lines represented by the equations in the xy-plane are parallel and distinct. Lines represented by equations in standard form, upper A x plus upper B y equals upper C and upper D x plus upper E y equals upper F, are parallel if the coefficients for x and y in one equation are proportional to the corresponding coefficients in the other equation, meaning StartFraction upper D Over upper A EndFraction equals StartFraction upper E Over upper B EndFraction; and the lines are distinct if the constants are not proportional, meaning StartFraction upper F Over upper C EndFraction is not equal to StartFraction upper D Over upper A EndFraction or StartFraction upper E Over upper B EndFraction. The given equation, y equals 6 x plus 18, can be written in standard form by subtracting 6 x from both sides of the equation to yield minus 6 x plus y equals 18. Therefore, the given equation can be written in the form upper A x plus upper B y equals upper C, where upper A equals negative 6, upper B equals 1, and upper C equals 18. The equation in choice B, minus 6 x plus y equals 22, is written in the form upper D x plus upper E y equals upper F, where upper D equals negative 6, upper E equals 1, and upper F equals 22. Therefore, StartFraction upper D Over upper A EndFraction equals StartFraction negative 6 Over negative 6 EndFraction, which can be rewritten as StartFraction upper D Over upper A EndFraction equals 1; StartFraction upper E Over upper B EndFraction equals one oneth, which can be rewritten as StartFraction upper E Over upper B EndFraction equals 1; and StartFraction upper F Over upper C EndFraction equals StartFraction 22 Over 18 EndFraction, which can be rewritten as StartFraction upper F Over upper C EndFraction equals StartFraction 11 Over 9 EndFraction. Since StartFraction upper D Over upper A EndFraction equals 1, StartFraction upper E Over upper B EndFraction equals 1, and StartFraction upper F Over upper C EndFraction is not equal to 1, it follows that the given equation and the equation minus 6 x plus y equals 22 are parallel and distinct. Therefore, a system of two linear equations consisting of the given equation and the equation minus 6 x plus y equals 22 has no solution. Thus, the equation in choice B could be the second equation in the system.\nChoice A is incorrect. The equation minus 6 x plus y equals 18 and the given equation represent the same line in the xy-plane. Therefore, a system of these linear equations would have infinitely many solutions, rather than no solution. \nChoice C is incorrect. The equation minus 12 x plus y equals 36 and the given equation represent lines in the xy-plane that are distinct and not parallel. Therefore, a system of these linear equations would have exactly one solution, rather than no solution.\nChoice D is incorrect. The equation minus 12 x plus y equals 18 and the given equation represent lines in the xy-plane that are distinct and not parallel. Therefore, a system of these linear equations would have exactly one solution, rather than no solution."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-301", "text": "The constant 2.74 in this function estimates which of the following?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["The average monthly decrease in the price per gallon", "The difference in the average price per gallon from September 1, 2014, to December 1, 2014", "The average price per gallon on September 1, 2014", "The average price per gallon on December 1, 2014"], "correct_answer": "D", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice D is correct. Since 2.74 is a constant term, it represents an actual price of gas rather than a measure of change in gas price. To determine what gas price it represents, find x such that F(x) = 2.74, or 2.74 = 2.74 \u2013 0.19(x \u2013 3). Subtracting 2.74 from both sides gives 0 = \u20130.19(x \u2013 3). Dividing both sides by \u20130.19 results in 0 = x \u2013 3, or x = 3. Therefore, the average price of gas is $2.74 per gallon 3 months after September 1, 2014, which is December 1, 2014.Choice A is incorrect. Since 2.74 is a constant, not a multiple of x, it cannot represent a rate of change in price. Choice B is incorrect. The difference in the average price from September 1, 2014, to December 1, 2014, is F(3) \u2013 F(0) = 2.74 \u2013 0.19(3 \u2013 3) \u2013 (2.74 \u2013 0.19(0 \u2013 3)) = 2.74 \u2013 (2.74 + 0.57) = \u20130.57, which is not 2.74. Choice C is incorrect. The average price per gallon on September 1, 2014, is F(0) = 2.74 \u2013 0.19(0 \u2013 3) = 2.74 + 0.57 = 3.31, which is not 2.74."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-302", "text": "4 x minus 9 y equals 9 y plus 5\nh y equals 2 plus 4 x\nIn the given system of equations, h is a constant. If the system has no solution, what is the value of h?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["negative 9", "0", "9", "18"], "correct_answer": "D", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice D is correct. A system of two linear equations in two variables, x and y, has no solution if the lines represented by the equations in the xy-plane are distinct and parallel. The graphs of two lines in the xy-plane represented by equations in the form upper A x plus upper B y equals upper C, where upper A, upper B, and upper C are constants, are parallel if the coefficients for x and y in one equation are proportional to the corresponding coefficients in the other equation. The first equation in the given system can be written in the form upper A x plus upper B y equals upper C by subtracting 9 y from both sides of the equation to yield 4 x minus 18 y equals 5. The second equation in the given system can be written in the form upper A x plus upper B y equals upper C by subtracting 4 x from both sides of the equation to yield minus 4 x plus h y equals 2. The coefficient of x in this second equation, negative 4, is negative 1 times the coefficient of x in the first equation, 4. For the lines to be parallel, the coefficient of y in the second equation, h, must also be negative 1 times the coefficient of y in the first equation, negative 18. Thus, h equals minus 1 left parenthesis negative 18 right parenthesis, or h equals 18. Therefore, if the given system has no solution, the value of h is 18.\nChoice A is incorrect. If the value of h is negative 9, then the given system would have one solution, rather than no solution.\nChoice B is incorrect. If the value of h is 0, then the given system would have one solution, rather than no solution.\nChoice C is incorrect. If the value of h is 9, then the given system would have one solution, rather than no solution."}]'::jsonb);
INSERT INTO sat_tests (title, description, test_type, difficulty, length, section, is_official, time_limit_minutes, questions) VALUES ('OpenSAT Math - Hard Set 4','Official-style SAT Math practice (Hard) from OpenSAT — image-free questions only.','math','hard','medium','math',true,38,'[{"id": "opensat-math-mcq-305", "text": "8 x plus 7 y equals 924 x plus 21 y equals 27\nFor each real number r, which of the following points lies on the graph of each equation in the xy-plane for the given system?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["left parenthesis r comma minus StartFraction 8 r Over 7 EndFraction plus nine sevenths right parenthesis", "left parenthesis minus StartFraction 8 r Over 7 EndFraction plus nine sevenths comma r right parenthesis", "left parenthesis minus StartFraction 8 r Over 7 EndFraction plus 9 comma StartFraction 8 r Over 7 EndFraction plus 27 right parenthesis", "left parenthesis StartFraction r Over 3 EndFraction plus 9 comma minus StartFraction r Over 3 EndFraction plus 27 right parenthesis"], "correct_answer": "A", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice A is correct. Dividing both sides of the second equation in the given system by 3 yields 8 x plus 7 y equals 9, which is the first equation in the given system. Therefore, the first and second equations represent the same line in the xy-plane. If the x- and y-coordinates of a point satisfy an equation, the point lies on the graph of the equation in the xy-plane. Choice A is a point with x-coordinate r and y-coordinate minus StartFraction 8 r Over 7 EndFraction plus nine sevenths. Substituting r for x and minus StartFraction 8 r Over 7 EndFraction plus nine sevenths for y in the equation 8 x plus 7 y equals 9 yields 8 r plus 7 left parenthesis minus eight sevenths r plus nine sevenths right parenthesis equals 9. Applying the distributive property to the left-hand side of this equation yields 8 r minus 8 r plus 9 equals 9. Combining like terms on the left-hand side of this equation yields 9 equals 9, so the coordinates of the point left parenthesis r comma minus eight sevenths r plus nine sevenths right parenthesis satisfy both equations in the given system. Therefore, for each real number r, the point left parenthesis r comma minus eight sevenths r plus nine sevenths right parenthesis lies on the graph of each equation in the xy-plane for the given system.\nChoice B is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice C is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice D is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-306", "text": "From left to right the values of the vertical bars in the Group 1 box plot are as follows:\n\nFirst vertical bar: 21\nSecond vertical bar: 22\nThird vertical bar: 25\nFourth vertical bar: 26\nFifth vertical bar: 28\n\nFrom left to right the values of the vertical bars in the Group 2 box plot are as follows:\n\nFirst vertical bar: 22\nSecond vertical bar: 23\nThird vertical bar: 24\nFourth vertical bar: 25\nFifth vertical bar: 28\n\nThe box plots summarize the masses, in kilograms, of two groups of gazelles. Based on the box plots, which of the following statements must be true?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["The mean mass of group 1 is greater than the mean mass of group 2.", "The mean mass of group 1 is less than the mean mass of group 2.", "The median mass of group 1 is greater than the median mass of group 2.", "The median mass of group 1 is less than the median mass of group 2."], "correct_answer": "C", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice C is correct. The median of a data set represented in a box plot is represented by the vertical line within the box. It follows that the median mass of the gazelles in group 1 is 25 kilograms, and the median mass of the gazelles in group 2 is 24 kilograms. Since 25 kilograms is greater than 24 kilograms, the median mass of group 1 is greater than the median mass of group 2.\nChoice A is incorrect. The mean mass of each of the two groups cannot be determined from the box plots.\nChoice B is incorrect. The mean mass of each of the two groups cannot be determined from the box plots.\nChoice D is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-309", "text": "y less than 6 x plus 2\nFor which of the following tables are all the values of x and their corresponding values of y solutions to the given inequality?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["x\ny\n\n3\n20\n\n5\n32\n\n7\n44", "x\ny\n\n3\n16\n\n5\n36\n\n7\n40", "x\ny\n\n3\n16\n\n5\n28\n\n7\n40", "x\ny\n\n3\n24\n\n5\n36\n\n7\n48"], "correct_answer": "C", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice C is correct. All the tables in the choices have the same three values of x, so each of the three values of x can be substituted in the given inequality to compare the corresponding values of y in each of the tables. Substituting 3 for x in the given inequality yields y less than 6 left parenthesis 3 right parenthesis plus 2, or y less than 20. Therefore, when x equals 3, the corresponding value of y is less than 20. Substituting 5 for x in the given inequality yields y less than 6 left parenthesis 5 right parenthesis plus 2, or y less than 32. Therefore, when x equals 5, the corresponding value of y is less than 32. Substituting 7 for x in the given inequality yields y less than 6 left parenthesis 7 right parenthesis plus 2, or y less than 44. Therefore, when x equals 7, the corresponding value of y is less than 44. For the table in choice C, when x equals 3, the corresponding value of y is 16, which is less than 20; when x equals 5, the corresponding value of y is 28, which is less than 32; when x equals 7, the corresponding value of y is 40, which is less than 44. Therefore, the table in choice C gives values of x and their corresponding values of y that are all solutions to the given inequality.\nChoice A is incorrect. In the table for choice A, when x equals 3, the corresponding value of y is 20, which is not less than 20; when x equals 5, the corresponding value of y is 32, which is not less than 32; when x equals 7, the corresponding value of y is 44, which is not less than 44.\nChoice B is incorrect. In the table for choice B, when x equals 5, the corresponding value of y is 36, which is not less than 32.\nChoice D is incorrect. In the table for choice D, when x equals 3, the corresponding value of y is 24, which is not less than 20; when x equals 5, the corresponding value of y is 36, which is not less than 32; when x equals 7, the corresponding value of y is 48, which is not less than 44."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-310", "text": "How many solutions does the equation 10 left parenthesis 15 x minus 9 right parenthesis equals minus 15 left parenthesis 6 minus 10 x right parenthesis have?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["Exactly one", "Exactly two", "Infinitely many", "Zero"], "correct_answer": "C", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice C is correct. Applying the distributive property to each side of the given equation yields 150 x minus 90 equals negative 90 plus 150 x. Applying the commutative property of addition to the right-hand side of this equation yields 150 x minus 90 equals 150 x minus 90. Since the two sides of the equation are equivalent, this equation is true for any value of x. Therefore, the given equation has infinitely many solutions.\nChoice A is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice B is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice D is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-312", "text": "minus 9 x squared plus 30 x plus c equals 0\nIn the given equation, c is a constant. The equation has exactly one solution. What is the value of c?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["3", "0", "negative 25", "negative 53"], "correct_answer": "C", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice C is correct. It''s given that the equation minus 9 x squared plus 30 x plus c equals 0 has exactly one solution. A quadratic equation of the form a x squared plus b x plus c equals 0 has exactly one solution if and only if its discriminant, minus 4 a c plus b squared, is equal to zero. It follows that for the given equation, a equals negative 9 and b equals 30. Substituting negative 9 for a and 30 for b into b squared minus 4 a c yields 30 squared minus 4 left parenthesis negative 9 right parenthesis left parenthesis c right parenthesis, or 900 plus 36 c. Since the discriminant must equal zero, 900 plus 36 c equals 0. Subtracting 36 c from both sides of this equation yields 900 equals minus 36 c. Dividing each side of this equation by negative 36 yields negative 25 equals c. Therefore, the value of c is negative 25. \nChoice A is incorrect. If the value of c is 3, this would yield a discriminant that is greater than zero. Therefore, the given equation would have two solutions, rather than exactly one solution.\nChoice B is incorrect. If the value of c is 0, this would yield a discriminant that is greater than zero. Therefore, the given equation would have two solutions, rather than exactly one solution.\nChoice D is incorrect. If the value of c is negative 53, this would yield a discriminant that is less than zero. Therefore, the given equation would have no real solutions, rather than exactly one solution."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-321", "text": "A circle in the xy-plane has its center at left parenthesis negative 4 comma negative 6 right parenthesis. Line k is tangent to this circle at the point left parenthesis negative 7 comma negative 7 right parenthesis. What is the slope of line k?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["negative 3", "negative one third", "one third", "3"], "correct_answer": "A", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice A is correct. A line that''s tangent to a circle is perpendicular to the radius of the circle at the point of tangency. It''s given that the circle has its center at left parenthesis negative 4 comma negative 6 right parenthesis and line k is tangent to the circle at the point left parenthesis negative 7 comma negative 7 right parenthesis. The slope of a radius defined by the points left parenthesis q comma r right parenthesis and left parenthesis s comma t right parenthesis can be calculated as StartFraction t minus r Over s minus q EndFraction. The points left parenthesis negative 7 comma negative 7 right parenthesis and left parenthesis negative 4 comma negative 6 right parenthesis define the radius of the circle at the point of tangency. Therefore, the slope of this radius can be calculated as StartFraction left parenthesis negative 6 right parenthesis minus left parenthesis negative 7 right parenthesis Over left parenthesis negative 4 right parenthesis minus left parenthesis negative 7 right parenthesis EndFraction, or one third. If a line and a radius are perpendicular, the slope of the line must be the negative reciprocal of the slope of the radius. The negative reciprocal of one third is negative 3. Thus, the slope of line k is negative 3.\nChoice B is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice C is incorrect. This is the slope of the radius of the circle at the point of tangency, not the slope of line k.\nChoice D is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-330", "text": "For the exponential function f, the value of f left parenthesis 1 right parenthesis is k, where k is a constant. Which of the following equivalent forms of the function f shows the value of k as the coefficient or the base?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals 50 left parenthesis 2 right parenthesis Superscript x plus 1", "f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals 80 left parenthesis 2 right parenthesis Superscript x", "f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals 128 left parenthesis 2 right parenthesis Superscript x minus 1", "f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals 205 left parenthesis 2 right parenthesis Superscript x minus 2"], "correct_answer": "C", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice C is correct. For the form of the function in choice C, f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals 128 left parenthesis 1.6 right parenthesis Superscript x minus 1, the value of f left parenthesis 1 right parenthesis can be found as 128 left parenthesis 1.6 right parenthesis Superscript 1 minus 1, which is equivalent to 128 left parenthesis 1.6 right parenthesis Superscript 0, or 128. Therefore, k equals 128, which is shown in f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals 128 left parenthesis 1.6 right parenthesis Superscript x minus 1 as the coefficient.\nChoice A is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice B is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice D is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-331", "text": "x minus 29 equals left parenthesis x minus a right parenthesis left parenthesis x minus 29 right parenthesis\nWhich of the following are solutions to the given equation, where a is a constant and a greater than 30?\n\na\na plus 1\n29", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["I and II only", "I and III only", "II and III only", "I, II, and III"], "correct_answer": "C", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice C is correct. Subtracting the expression left parenthesis x minus 29 right parenthesis from both sides of the given equation yields 0 equals left parenthesis x minus a right parenthesis left parenthesis x minus 29 right parenthesis minus left parenthesis x minus 29 right parenthesis, which can be rewritten as 0 equals left parenthesis x minus a right parenthesis left parenthesis x minus 29 right parenthesis plus left parenthesis negative 1 right parenthesis left parenthesis x minus 29 right parenthesis. Since the two terms on the right-hand side of this equation have a common factor of left parenthesis x minus 29 right parenthesis, it can be rewritten as 0 equals left parenthesis x minus 29 right parenthesis left parenthesis x minus a plus left parenthesis negative 1 right parenthesis right parenthesis, or 0 equals left parenthesis x minus 29 right parenthesis left parenthesis x minus a minus 1 right parenthesis. Since x minus a minus 1 is equivalent to x minus left parenthesis a plus 1 right parenthesis, the equation 0 equals left parenthesis x minus 29 right parenthesis left parenthesis x minus a minus 1 right parenthesis can be rewritten as 0 equals left parenthesis x minus 29 right parenthesis left parenthesis x minus left parenthesis a plus 1 right parenthesis right parenthesis. By the zero product property, it follows that x minus 29 equals 0 or x minus left parenthesis a plus 1 right parenthesis equals 0. Adding 29 to both sides of the equation x minus 29 equals 0 yields x equals 29. Adding a plus 1 to both sides of the equation x minus left parenthesis a plus 1 right parenthesis equals 0 yields x equals a plus 1. Therefore, the two solutions to the given equation are 29 and a plus 1. Thus, only a plus 1 and 29, not a, are solutions to the given equation.\nChoice A is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice B is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice D is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-334", "text": "5 x plus 7 y equals 1\na x plus b y equals 1\nIn the given pair of equations, a and b are constants. The graph of this pair of equations in the xy-plane is a pair of perpendicular lines. Which of the following pairs of equations also represents a pair of perpendicular lines?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["10 x plus 7 y equals 1\na x minus 2 b y equals 1", "10 x plus 7 y equals 1\na x plus 2 b y equals 1", "10 x plus 7 y equals 1\n2 a x plus b y equals 1", "5 x minus 7 y equals 1\na x plus b y equals 1"], "correct_answer": "B", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice B is correct. Two lines are perpendicular if their slopes are negative reciprocals, meaning that the slope of the first line is equal to negative 1 divided by the slope of the second line. Each equation in the given pair of equations can be written in slope-intercept form, y equals m x plus b, where m is the slope of the graph of the equation in the xy-plane and left parenthesis 0 comma b right parenthesis is the y-intercept. For the first equation, 5 x plus 7 y equals 1, subtracting 5 x from both sides gives 7 y equals minus 5 x plus 1, and dividing both sides of this equation by 7 gives y equals minus five sevenths x plus one seventh. Therefore, the slope of the graph of this equation is negative five sevenths. For the second equation, a x plus b y equals 1, subtracting a x from both sides gives b y equals minus a x plus 1, and dividing both sides of this equation by b gives y equals minus StartFraction a Over b EndFraction x plus StartFraction 1 Over b EndFraction. Therefore, the slope of the graph of this equation is minus StartFraction a Over b EndFraction. Since the graph of the given pair of equations is a pair of perpendicular lines, the slope of the graph of the second equation, minus StartFraction a Over b EndFraction, must be the negative reciprocal of the slope of the graph of the first equation, negative five sevenths. The negative reciprocal of negative five sevenths is StartFraction negative 1 Over left parenthesis negative five sevenths right parenthesis EndFraction, or seven fifths. Therefore, minus StartFraction a Over b EndFraction equals seven fifths, or StartFraction a Over b EndFraction equals negative seven fifths. Similarly, rewriting the equations in choice B in slope-intercept form yields y equals minus StartFraction 10 Over 7 EndFraction x plus one seventh and y equals minus StartFraction a Over 2 b EndFraction x plus StartFraction 1 Over 2 b EndFraction. It follows that the slope of the graph of the first equation in choice B is negative StartFraction 10 Over 7 EndFraction and the slope of the graph of the second equation in choice B is minus StartFraction a Over 2 b EndFraction. Since StartFraction a Over b EndFraction equals negative seven fifths, minus StartFraction a Over 2 b EndFraction is equal to minus left parenthesis one half right parenthesis left parenthesis negative seven fifths right parenthesis, or seven tenths. Since seven tenths is the negative reciprocal of negative StartFraction 10 Over 7 EndFraction, the pair of equations in choice B represents a pair of perpendicular lines.\nChoice A is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice C is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice D is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-340", "text": "The dot plots represent the distributions of values in data sets A and B.\n\nFor the dot plot titled Data Set A:\n\nThe number line ranges from 10 to 16 in increments of 1.\nThe data for the dot plot are as follows:\n\n10: 1 dot\n11: 4 dots\n12: 2 dots\n13: 3 dots\n14: 2 dots\n15: 4 dots\n16: 1 dot\n\nFor the dot plot titled Data Set B:\n\nThe number line ranges from 10 to 16 in increments of 1.\nThe data for the dot plot are as follows:\n\n10: 2 dots\n11: 4 dots\n12: 2 dots\n13: 1 dot\n14: 2 dots\n15: 4 dots\n16: 2 dots\n\nWhich of the following statements must be true?\n\nThe median of data set A is equal to the median of data set B.\nThe standard deviation of data set A is equal to the standard deviation of data set B.", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["I only", "II only", "I and II", "Neither I nor II"], "correct_answer": "A", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice A is correct. The median of a data set with an odd number of values that are in ascending or descending order is the middle value of the data set. Since the distribution of the values of both data set A and data set B form symmetric dot plots, and each data set has an odd number of values, it follows that the median is given by the middle value in each of the dot plots. Thus, the median of data set A is 13, and the median of data set B is 13. Therefore, statement I is true. Data set A and data set B have the same frequency for each of the values 11, 12, 14, and 15. Data set A has a frequency of 1 for values 10 and 16, whereas data set B has a frequency of 2 for values 10 and 16. Standard deviation is a measure of the spread of a data set; it is larger when there are more values further from the mean, and smaller when there are more values closer to the mean. Since both distributions are symmetric with an odd number of values, the mean of each data set is equal to its median. Thus, each data set has a mean of 13. Since more of the values in data set A are closer to 13 than data set B, it follows that data set A has a smaller standard deviation than data set B. Thus, statement II is false. Therefore, only statement I must be true.\nChoice B is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice C is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice D is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-346", "text": "*{stroke-linecap:butt;stroke-linejoin:round;}\n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n\nFor the first line in the system:\n\nThe line slants gradually down from left to right.\nThe line passes through the following points:\n\n(negative 4 comma 5)\n(0 comma 4)\n(8 comma 2)\n\nFor the second line in the system:\n\nThe line is horizontal.\nThe line passes through the following points:\n\n(0 comma 2)\n(8 comma 2)\n\nIf a new graph of three linear equations is created using the system of equations shown and the equation x plus 4 y equals negative 16, how many solutions left parenthesis x comma y right parenthesis will the resulting system of three equations have?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["Zero", "Exactly one", "Exactly two", "Infinitely many"], "correct_answer": "A", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice A is correct. A solution to a system of equations must satisfy each equation in the system. It follows that if an ordered pair left parenthesis x comma y right parenthesis is a solution to the system, the point left parenthesis x comma y right parenthesis lies on the graph in the xy-plane of each equation in the system. The only point that lies on each graph of the system of two linear equations shown is their intersection point left parenthesis 8 comma 2 right parenthesis. It follows that if a new graph of three linear equations is created using the system of equations shown and the graph of x plus 4 y equals negative 16, this system has either zero solutions or one solution, the point left parenthesis 8 comma 2 right parenthesis. Substituting 8 for x and 2 for y in the equation x plus 4 y equals negative 16 yields 8 plus 4 left parenthesis 2 right parenthesis equals negative 16, or 16 equals negative 16. Since this equation is not true, the point left parenthesis 8 comma 2 right parenthesis does not lie on the graph of x plus 4 y equals negative 16. Therefore, left parenthesis 8 comma 2 right parenthesis is not a solution to the system of three equations. It follows that there are zero solutions to this system.\nChoice B is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice C is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice D is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-350", "text": "p left parenthesis t right parenthesis equals 90,000 left parenthesis 1.06 right parenthesis Superscript t\nThe given function p models the population of Lowell t years after a census. Which of the following functions best models the population of Lowell m months after the census?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["r left parenthesis m right parenthesis equals StartFraction 90,000 Over 12 EndFraction left parenthesis 1.06 right parenthesis Superscript m", "r left parenthesis m right parenthesis equals 90,000 left parenthesis StartFraction 1.06 Over 12 EndFraction right parenthesis Superscript m", "r left parenthesis m right parenthesis equals 90,000 left parenthesis StartFraction 1.06 Over 12 EndFraction right parenthesis Superscript StartFraction m Over 12 EndFraction", "r left parenthesis m right parenthesis equals 90,000 left parenthesis 1.06 right parenthesis Superscript StartFraction m Over 12 EndFraction"], "correct_answer": "D", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice D is correct. It\u2019s given that the function p models the population of Lowell t years after a census. Since there are 12 months in a year, m months after the census is equivalent to StartFraction m Over 12 EndFraction years after the census. Substituting StartFraction m Over 12 EndFraction for t in the equation p left parenthesis t right parenthesis equals 90,000 left parenthesis 1.06 right parenthesis Superscript t yields p left parenthesis StartFraction m Over 12 EndFraction right parenthesis equals 90,000 left parenthesis 1.06 right parenthesis Superscript StartFraction m Over 12 EndFraction. Therefore, the function r that best models the population of Lowell m months after the census is r left parenthesis m right parenthesis equals 90,000 left parenthesis 1.06 right parenthesis Superscript StartFraction m Over 12 EndFraction.\nChoice A is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice B is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice C is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-352", "text": "The value of a collectible comic book increased by 167 percent sign from the end of 2011 to the end of 2012 and then decreased by 16 percent sign from the end of 2012 to the end of 2013. What was the net percentage increase in the value of the collectible comic book from the end of 2011 to the end of 2013?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["124.28 percent sign", "140.28 percent sign", "151.00 percent sign", "209.72 percent sign"], "correct_answer": "A", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice A is correct. It\u2019s given that the value of the comic book increased by 167 percent sign from the end of 2011 to the end of 2012. Therefore, if the value of the comic book at the end of 2011 was x dollars, then the value, in dollars, of the comic book at the end of 2012 was x plus left parenthesis StartFraction 167 Over 100 EndFraction right parenthesis x, which can be rewritten as 1 x plus 1.67 x, or 2.67 x. It\u2019s also given that the value of the comic book decreased by 16 percent sign from the end of 2012 to the end of 2013. Therefore, the value, in dollars, of the comic book at the end of 2013 was 2.67 x minus 2.67 x left parenthesis StartFraction 16 Over 100 EndFraction right parenthesis, which can be rewritten as 2.67 x minus left parenthesis 2.67 x right parenthesis left parenthesis 0.16 right parenthesis, or 2.2428 x. Thus, if the value of the comic book at the end of 2011 was x dollars, and the value of the comic book at the end of 2013 was 2.2428 x dollars, then from the end of 2011 to the end of 2013, the value of the comic book increased by 2.2428 x minus 1 x, or 1.2428 x, dollars. Therefore, the increase in the value of the comic book from the end of 2011 to the end of 2013 is equal to 1.2428 times the value of the comic book at the end of 2011. It follows that from the end of 2011 to the end of 2013, the net percentage increase in the value of the comic book was left parenthesis 1.2428 right parenthesis left parenthesis 100 right parenthesis percent sign, or 124.28 percent sign.\nChoice B is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors. \nChoice C is incorrect. This is the difference between the net percentage increase in the value of the comic book from the end of 2011 to the end of 2012 and the net percentage decrease in the value of the comic book from the end of 2012 to the end of 2013, not the net percentage increase in the value of the comic book from the end of 2011 to the end of 2013.\nChoice D is incorrect. This is the net percentage increase in the value of the comic book from the end of 2011 to the end of 2013, if the value of the comic book increased by 167 percent sign from the end of 2011 to the end of 2012 and then increased, not decreased, by 16 percent sign from the end of 2012 to the end of 2013."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-355", "text": "y greater than 13 x minus 18\nFor which of the following tables are all the values of x and their corresponding values of y solutions to the given inequality?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["x\ny\n\n3\n21\n\n5\n47\n\n8\n86", "x\ny\n\n3\n26\n\n5\n42\n\n8\n86", "x\ny\n\n3\n16\n\n5\n42\n\n8\n81", "x\ny\n\n3\n26\n\n5\n52\n\n8\n91"], "correct_answer": "D", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice D is correct. All the tables in the choices have the same three values of x, so each of the three values of x can be substituted in the given inequality to compare the corresponding values of y in each of the tables. Substituting 3 for x in the given inequality yields y greater than 13 left parenthesis 3 right parenthesis minus 18, or y greater than 21. Therefore, when x equals 3, the corresponding value of y is greater than 21. Substituting 5 for x in the given inequality yields y greater than 13 left parenthesis 5 right parenthesis minus 18, or y greater than 47. Therefore, when x equals 5, the corresponding value of y is greater than 47. Substituting 8 for x in the given inequality yields y greater than 13 left parenthesis 8 right parenthesis minus 18, or y greater than 86. Therefore, when x equals 8, the corresponding value of y is greater than 86. For the table in choice D, when x equals 3, the corresponding value of y is 26, which is greater than 21; when x equals 5, the corresponding value of y is 52, which is greater than 47; when x equals 8, the corresponding value of y is 91, which is greater than 86. Therefore, the table in choice D gives values of x and their corresponding values of y that are all solutions to the given inequality.\nChoice A is incorrect. In the table for choice A, when x equals 3, the corresponding value of y is 21, which is not greater than 21; when x equals 5, the corresponding value of y is 47, which is not greater than 47; when x equals 8, the corresponding value of y is 86, which is not greater than 86.\nChoice B is incorrect. In the table for choice B, when x equals 5, the corresponding value of y is 42, which is not greater than 47; when x equals 8, the corresponding value of y is 86, which is not greater than 86.\nChoice C is incorrect. In the table for choice C, when x equals 3, the corresponding value of y is 16, which is not greater than 21; when x equals 5, the corresponding value of y is 42, which is not greater than 47; when x equals 8, the corresponding value of y is 81, which is not greater than 86."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-362", "text": "Which expression is equivalent to StartFraction y plus 12 Over x minus 8 EndFraction plus StartFraction y left parenthesis x minus 8 right parenthesis Over x squared y minus 8 x y EndFraction?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["StartFraction x y plus y plus 4 Over x cubed y minus 16 x squared y plus 64 x y EndFraction", "StartFraction x y plus 9 y plus 12 Over x squared y minus 8 x y plus x minus 8 EndFraction", "StartFraction x y squared plus 13 x y minus 8 y Over x squared y minus 8 x y EndFraction", "StartFraction x y squared plus 13 x y minus 8 y Over x cubed y minus 16 x squared y plus 64 x y EndFraction"], "correct_answer": "C", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice C is correct. Factoring the denominator in the second term of the given expression gives StartFraction y plus 12 Over x minus 8 EndFraction plus StartFraction y left parenthesis x minus 8 right parenthesis Over x y left parenthesis x minus 8 right parenthesis EndFraction. This expression can be rewritten with common denominators by multiplying the first term by StartFraction x y Over x y EndFraction, giving StartFraction x y left parenthesis y plus 12 right parenthesis Over x y left parenthesis x minus 8 right parenthesis EndFraction plus StartFraction y left parenthesis x minus 8 right parenthesis Over x y left parenthesis x minus 8 right parenthesis EndFraction. Adding these two terms yields StartFraction x y left parenthesis y plus 12 right parenthesis plus y left parenthesis x minus 8 right parenthesis Over x y left parenthesis x minus 8 right parenthesis EndFraction. Using the distributive property to rewrite this expression gives StartFraction x y squared plus 12 x y plus x y minus 8 y Over x squared y minus 8 x y EndFraction. Combining the like terms in the numerator of this expression gives StartFraction x y squared plus 13 x y minus 8 y Over x squared y minus 8 x y EndFraction.\nChoice A is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice B is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice D is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-372", "text": "The mean amount of time that the 20 employees of a construction company have worked for the company is 6.7 years. After one of the employees leaves the company, the mean amount of time that the remaining employees have worked for the company is reduced to 6.25 years. How many years did the employee who left the company work for the company?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["0.45", "2.30", "9.00", "15.25"], "correct_answer": "D", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice D is correct. The mean amount of time that the 20 employees worked for the company is 6.7 years. This means that the total number of years all 20 employees worked for the company is (6.7)(20) = 134 years. After the employee left, the mean amount of time that the remaining 19 employees worked for the company is 6.25 years. Therefore, the total number of years all 19 employees worked for the company is (6.25)(19) = 118.75 years. It follows that the number of years that the employee who left had worked for the company is 134 \u2013 118.75 = 15.25 years.Choice A is incorrect; this is the change in the mean, which isn\u2019t the same as the amount of time worked by the employee who left. Choice B is incorrect and likely results from making the assumption that there were still 20 employees, rather than 19, at the company after the employee left and then subtracting the original mean of 6.7 from that result. Choice C is incorrect and likely results from making the assumption that there were still 20 employees, rather than 19, at the company after the employee left."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-376", "text": "For x greater than 0, the function f is defined as follows:\nf left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals 201 percent sign of x\nWhich of the following could describe this function?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["Decreasing exponential", "Decreasing linear", "Increasing exponential", "Increasing linear"], "correct_answer": "D", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice D is correct. It''s given that for x greater than 0, f left parenthesis x right parenthesis is equal to 201 percent sign of x. This is equivalent to f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals StartFraction 201 Over 100 EndFraction x, or f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals 2.01 x, for x greater than 0. This function indicates that as x increases, f left parenthesis x right parenthesis also increases, which means f is an increasing function. Furthermore, f left parenthesis x right parenthesis increases at a constant rate of 2.01 for each increase of x by 1. A function with a constant rate of change is linear. Thus, the function f can be described as an increasing linear function.\nChoice A is incorrect and may result from conceptual errors.\nChoice B is incorrect and may result from conceptual errors.\nChoice C is incorrect. This could describe the function f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals left parenthesis 2.01 right parenthesis Superscript x, where f left parenthesis x right parenthesis is equal to 201 percent sign of f left parenthesis x minus 1 right parenthesis, not x, for x greater than 0."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-377", "text": "f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals StartAbsoluteValue 59 minus 2 x EndAbsoluteValue\nThe function f is defined by the given equation. For which of the following values of k does f left parenthesis k right parenthesis equals 3 k?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["StartFraction 59 Over 5 EndFraction", "StartFraction 59 Over 2 EndFraction", "StartFraction 177 Over 5 EndFraction", "59"], "correct_answer": "A", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice A is correct. The value of k for which f left parenthesis k right parenthesis equals 3 k can be found by substituting k for x and 3 k for f left parenthesis x right parenthesis in the given equation, f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals StartAbsoluteValue 59 minus 2 x EndAbsoluteValue, which yields 3 k equals StartAbsoluteValue 59 minus 2 k EndAbsoluteValue. For this equation to be true, either minus 3 k equals 59 minus 2 k or 3 k equals 59 minus 2 k. Adding 2 k to both sides of the equation minus 3 k equals 59 minus 2 k yields negative k equals 59. Dividing both sides of this equation by negative 1 yields k equals negative 59. To check whether negative 59 is the value of k, substituting negative 59 for k in the equation 3 k equals StartAbsoluteValue 59 minus 2 k EndAbsoluteValue yields 3 left parenthesis negative 59 right parenthesis equals StartAbsoluteValue 59 minus 2 left parenthesis negative 59 right parenthesis EndAbsoluteValue, which is equivalent to negative 177 equals StartAbsoluteValue 177 EndAbsoluteValue, or negative 177 equals 177, which isn''t a true statement. Therefore, negative 59 isn''t the value of k. Adding 2 k to both sides of the equation 3 k equals 59 minus 2 k yields 5 k equals 59. Dividing both sides of this equation by 5 yields k equals StartFraction 59 Over 5 EndFraction. To check whether StartFraction 59 Over 5 EndFraction is the value of k, substituting StartFraction 59 Over 5 EndFraction for k in the equation 3 k equals StartAbsoluteValue 59 minus 2 k EndAbsoluteValue yields 3 left parenthesis StartFraction 59 Over 5 EndFraction right parenthesis equals StartAbsoluteValue 59 minus 2 left parenthesis StartFraction 59 Over 5 EndFraction right parenthesis EndAbsoluteValue, which is equivalent to StartFraction 177 Over 5 EndFraction equals StartAbsoluteValue StartFraction 177 Over 5 EndFraction EndAbsoluteValue, or StartFraction 177 Over 5 EndFraction equals StartFraction 177 Over 5 EndFraction, which is a true statement. Therefore, the value of k for which f left parenthesis k right parenthesis equals 3 k is StartFraction 59 Over 5 EndFraction.\nChoice B is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice C is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice D is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-382", "text": "f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals a x squared plus 4 x plus c\nIn the given quadratic function, a and c are constants. The graph of y equals f left parenthesis x right parenthesis in the xy-plane is a parabola that opens upward and has a vertex at the point left parenthesis h comma k right parenthesis, where h and k are constants. If k less than 0 and f left parenthesis negative 9 right parenthesis equals f left parenthesis 3 right parenthesis, which of the following must be true?\n\nc less than 0\na greater than or equals 1", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["I only", "II only", "I and II", "Neither I nor II"], "correct_answer": "D", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice D is correct. It''s given that the graph of y equals f left parenthesis x right parenthesis in the xy-plane is a parabola with vertex left parenthesis h comma k right parenthesis. If f left parenthesis negative 9 right parenthesis equals f left parenthesis 3 right parenthesis, then for the graph of y equals f left parenthesis x right parenthesis, the point with an x-coordinate of negative 9 and the point with an x-coordinate of 3 have the same y-coordinate. In the xy-plane, a parabola is a symmetric graph such that when two points have the same y-coordinate, these points are equidistant from the vertex, and the x-coordinate of the vertex is halfway between the x-coordinates of these two points. Therefore, for the graph of y equals f left parenthesis x right parenthesis, the points with x-coordinates negative 9 and 3 are equidistant from the vertex, left parenthesis h comma k right parenthesis, and h is halfway between negative 9 and 3. The value that is halfway between negative 9 and 3 is StartFraction negative 9 plus 3 Over 2 EndFraction, or negative 3. Therefore, h equals negative 3. The equation defining f can also be written in vertex form, f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals a left parenthesis x minus h right parenthesis squared plus k. Substituting negative 3 for h in this equation yields f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals a left parenthesis x minus left parenthesis negative 3 right parenthesis right parenthesis squared plus k, or f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals a left parenthesis x plus 3 right parenthesis squared plus k. This equation is equivalent to f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals a left parenthesis x squared plus 6 x plus 9 right parenthesis plus k, or f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals a x squared plus 6 a x plus 9 a plus k. Since f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals a x squared plus 4 x plus c, it follows that 6 a equals 4 and 9 a plus k equals c. Dividing both sides of the equation 6 a equals 4 by 6 yields a equals four sixths, or a equals two thirds. Since two thirds less than 1, it''s not true that a greater than or equals 1. Therefore, statement II isn''t true. Substituting two thirds for a in the equation 9 a plus k equals c yields 9 left parenthesis two thirds right parenthesis plus k equals c, or 6 plus k equals c. Subtracting 6 from both sides of this equation yields k equals c minus 6. If k less than 0, then c minus 6 less than 0, or c less than 6. Since c could be any value less than 6, it''s not necessarily true that c less than 0. Therefore, statement I isn''t necessarily true. Thus, neither I nor II must be true.\nChoice A is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice B is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice C is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-384", "text": "Which expression is equivalent to StartFraction 4 Over 4 x minus 5 EndFraction minus StartFraction 1 Over x plus 1 EndFraction?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["StartFraction 1 Over left parenthesis x plus 1 right parenthesis left parenthesis 4 x minus 5 right parenthesis EndFraction", "StartFraction 3 Over 3 x minus 6 EndFraction", "minus StartFraction 1 Over left parenthesis x plus 1 right parenthesis left parenthesis 4 x minus 5 right parenthesis EndFraction", "StartFraction 9 Over left parenthesis x plus 1 right parenthesis left parenthesis 4 x minus 5 right parenthesis EndFraction"], "correct_answer": "D", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice D is correct. The expression StartFraction 4 Over 4 x minus 5 EndFraction minus StartFraction 1 Over x plus 1 EndFraction can be rewritten as StartFraction 4 Over 4 x minus 5 EndFraction plus StartFraction left parenthesis negative 1 right parenthesis Over x plus 1 EndFraction. To add the two terms of this expression, the terms can be rewritten with a common denominator. Since StartFraction x plus 1 Over x plus 1 EndFraction equals 1, the expression StartFraction 4 Over 4 x minus 5 EndFraction can be rewritten as StartFraction left parenthesis x plus 1 right parenthesis left parenthesis 4 right parenthesis Over left parenthesis x plus 1 right parenthesis left parenthesis 4 x minus 5 right parenthesis EndFraction. Since StartFraction 4 x minus 5 Over 4 x minus 5 EndFraction equals 1, the expression StartFraction negative 1 Over x plus 1 EndFraction can be rewritten as StartFraction left parenthesis 4 x minus 5 right parenthesis left parenthesis negative 1 right parenthesis Over left parenthesis 4 x minus 5 right parenthesis left parenthesis x plus 1 right parenthesis EndFraction. Therefore, the expression StartFraction 4 Over 4 x minus 5 EndFraction plus StartFraction left parenthesis negative 1 right parenthesis Over x plus 1 EndFraction can be rewritten as StartFraction left parenthesis x plus 1 right parenthesis left parenthesis 4 right parenthesis Over left parenthesis x plus 1 right parenthesis left parenthesis 4 x minus 5 right parenthesis EndFraction plus StartFraction left parenthesis 4 x minus 5 right parenthesis left parenthesis negative 1 right parenthesis Over left parenthesis 4 x minus 5 right parenthesis left parenthesis x plus 1 right parenthesis EndFraction, which is equivalent to StartFraction left parenthesis x plus 1 right parenthesis left parenthesis 4 right parenthesis plus left parenthesis 4 x minus 5 right parenthesis left parenthesis negative 1 right parenthesis Over left parenthesis x plus 1 right parenthesis left parenthesis 4 x minus 5 right parenthesis EndFraction. Applying the distributive property to each term of the numerator yields StartFraction left parenthesis 4 x plus 4 right parenthesis plus left parenthesis minus 4 x plus 5 right parenthesis Over left parenthesis x plus 1 right parenthesis left parenthesis 4 x minus 5 right parenthesis EndFraction, or StartFraction left parenthesis 4 x plus left parenthesis minus 4 x right parenthesis right parenthesis plus left parenthesis 4 plus 5 right parenthesis Over left parenthesis x plus 1 right parenthesis left parenthesis 4 x minus 5 right parenthesis EndFraction. Adding like terms in the numerator yields StartFraction 9 Over left parenthesis x plus 1 right parenthesis left parenthesis 4 x minus 5 right parenthesis EndFraction.\nChoice A is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice B is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice C is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-387", "text": "A survey was given to residents of all 50 states asking if they had earned a bachelor\u2019s degree or higher. The results from 7 of the states are given in the table above. The median percent of residents who earned a bachelor\u2019s degree or higher for all 50 states was 26.95%. What is the difference between the median percent of residents who earned a bachelor\u2019s degree or higher for these 7 states and the median for all 50 states?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["0.05%", "0.95%", "1.22%", "7.45%"], "correct_answer": "B", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice B is correct. The median of a set of numbers is the middle value of the set values when ordered from least to greatest. If the percents in the table are ordered from least to greatest, the middle value is 27.9%. The difference between 27.9% and 26.95% is 0.95%.Choice A is incorrect and may be the result of calculation errors or not finding the median of the data in the table correctly. Choice C is incorrect and may be the result of finding the mean instead of the median. Choice D is incorrect and may be the result of using the middle value of the unordered list."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-389", "text": "x squared minus 40 x minus 10 equals 0\nWhat is the sum of the solutions to the given equation?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["0", "5", "10", "40"], "correct_answer": "D", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice D is correct. Adding 10 to each side of the given equation yields x squared minus 40 x equals 10. To complete the square, adding left parenthesis StartFraction 40 Over 2 EndFraction right parenthesis squared, or 20 squared, to each side of this equation yields x squared minus 40 x plus 20 squared equals 10 plus 20 squared, or left parenthesis x minus 20 right parenthesis squared equals 410. Taking the square root of each side of this equation yields x minus 20 equals plus or minus StartRoot 410 EndRoot. Adding 20 to each side of this equation yields x equals 20 plus or minus StartRoot 410 EndRoot. Therefore, the solutions to the given equation are x equals 20 plus StartRoot 410 EndRoot and x equals 20 minus StartRoot 410 EndRoot. The sum of these solutions is left parenthesis 20 plus StartRoot 410 EndRoot right parenthesis plus left parenthesis 20 minus StartRoot 410 EndRoot right parenthesis, or 40.\nChoice A is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice B is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice C is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-394", "text": "An isosceles right triangle has a perimeter of 94 plus 94 StartRoot 2 EndRoot inches. What is the length, in inches, of one leg of this triangle?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["47", "47 StartRoot 2 EndRoot", "94", "94 StartRoot 2 EndRoot"], "correct_answer": "B", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice B is correct. It''s given that the right triangle is isosceles. In an isosceles right triangle, the two legs have equal lengths, and the length of the hypotenuse is StartRoot 2 EndRoot times the length of one of the legs. Let script l represent the length, in inches, of each leg of the isosceles right triangle. It follows that the length of the hypotenuse is script l StartRoot 2 EndRoot inches. The perimeter of a figure is the sum of the lengths of the sides of the figure. Therefore, the perimeter of the isosceles right triangle is script l plus script l plus script l StartRoot 2 EndRoot inches. It''s given that the perimeter of the triangle is 94 plus 94 StartRoot 2 EndRoot inches. It follows that script l plus script l plus script l StartRoot 2 EndRoot equals 94 plus 94 StartRoot 2 EndRoot. Factoring the left-hand side of this equation yields left parenthesis 1 plus 1 plus StartRoot 2 EndRoot right parenthesis script l equals 94 plus 94 StartRoot 2 EndRoot, or left parenthesis 2 plus StartRoot 2 EndRoot right parenthesis script l equals 94 plus 94 StartRoot 2 EndRoot. Dividing both sides of this equation by 2 plus StartRoot 2 EndRoot yields script l equals StartFraction 94 plus 94 StartRoot 2 EndRoot Over 2 plus StartRoot 2 EndRoot EndFraction. Rationalizing the denominator of the right-hand side of this equation by multiplying the right-hand side of the equation by StartFraction 2 minus StartRoot 2 EndRoot Over 2 minus StartRoot 2 EndRoot EndFraction yields script l equals StartFraction left parenthesis 94 plus 94 StartRoot 2 EndRoot right parenthesis left parenthesis 2 minus StartRoot 2 EndRoot right parenthesis Over left parenthesis 2 plus StartRoot 2 EndRoot right parenthesis left parenthesis 2 minus StartRoot 2 EndRoot right parenthesis EndFraction. Applying the distributive property to the numerator and to the denominator of the right-hand side of this equation yields script l equals StartFraction 188 minus 94 StartRoot 2 EndRoot plus 188 StartRoot 2 EndRoot minus 94 StartRoot 4 EndRoot Over 4 minus 2 StartRoot 2 EndRoot plus 2 StartRoot 2 EndRoot minus StartRoot 4 EndRoot EndFraction. This is equivalent to script l equals StartFraction 94 StartRoot 2 EndRoot Over 2 EndFraction, or script l equals 47 StartRoot 2 EndRoot. Therefore, the length, in inches, of one leg of the isosceles right triangle is 47 StartRoot 2 EndRoot.\nChoice A is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice C is incorrect. This is the length, in inches, of the hypotenuse.\nChoice D is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-395", "text": "The results of two random samples of votes for a proposition are shown above. The samples were selected from the same population, and the margins of error were calculated using the same method. Which of the following is the most appropriate reason that the margin of error for sample A is greater than the margin of error for sample B?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["Sample A had a smaller number of votes that could not be recorded.", "Sample A had a higher percent of favorable responses.", "Sample A had a larger sample size.", "Sample A had a smaller sample size."], "correct_answer": "D", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice D is correct. Sample size is an appropriate reason for the margin of error to change. In general, a smaller sample size increases the margin of error because the sample may be less representative of the whole population.Choice A is incorrect. The margin of error will depend on the size of the sample of recorded votes, not the number of votes that could not be recorded. In any case, the smaller number of votes that could not be recorded for sample A would tend to decrease, not increase, the comparative size of the margin of error. Choice B is incorrect. Since the percent in favor for sample A is the same distance from 50% as the percent in favor for sample B, the percent of favorable responses doesn\u2019t affect the comparative size of the margin of error for the two samples. Choice C is incorrect. If sample A had a larger margin of error than sample B, then sample A would tend to be less representative of the population. Therefore, sample A is not likely to have a larger sample size."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-405", "text": "upper P left parenthesis t right parenthesis equals 290 left parenthesis 1.04 right parenthesis Superscript left parenthesis four sixths right parenthesis t\nThe function upper P models the population, in thousands, of a certain city t years after 2005. According to the model, the population is predicted to increase by n percent sign every 18 months. What is the value of n?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["0.38", "1.04", "4", "6"], "correct_answer": "C", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice C is correct. It''s given that the function upper P models the population of the city t years after 2005. Since there are 12 months in a year, 18 months is equivalent to StartFraction 18 Over 12 EndFraction years. Therefore, the expression StartFraction 18 Over 12 EndFraction x can represent the number of years in x 18-month periods. Substituting StartFraction 18 Over 12 EndFraction x for t in the given equation yields upper P left parenthesis StartFraction 18 Over 12 EndFraction x right parenthesis equals 290 left parenthesis 1.04 right parenthesis Superscript left parenthesis four sixths right parenthesis left parenthesis StartFraction 18 Over 12 EndFraction x right parenthesis, which is equivalent to upper P left parenthesis StartFraction 18 Over 12 EndFraction x right parenthesis equals 290 left parenthesis 1.04 right parenthesis Superscript x. Therefore, for each 18-month period, the predicted population of the city is 1.04 times, or 104 percent sign of, the previous population. This means that the population is predicted to increase by 4 percent sign every 18 months.\nChoice A is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors. \nChoice B is incorrect. Each year, the predicted population of the city is 1.04 times the previous year''s predicted population, which is not the same as an increase of 1.04 percent sign.\nChoice D is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-407", "text": "In triangle upper A upper B upper C, the measure of angle upper B is 90 degree and line segment upper B upper D is an altitude of the triangle. The length of line segment upper A upper B is 15 and the length of line segment upper A upper C is 23 greater than the length of line segment upper A upper B. What is the value of StartFraction upper B upper C Over upper B upper D EndFraction?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["StartFraction 15 Over 38 EndFraction", "StartFraction 15 Over 23 EndFraction", "StartFraction 23 Over 15 EndFraction", "StartFraction 38 Over 15 EndFraction"], "correct_answer": "D", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice D is correct. It''s given that in triangle upper A upper B upper C, the measure of angle upper B is 90 degree and line segment upper B upper D is an altitude of the triangle. Therefore, the measure of angle upper B upper D upper C is 90 degree. It follows that angle upper B is congruent to angle upper D and angle upper C is congruent to angle upper C. By the angle-angle similarity postulate, triangle upper A upper B upper C is similar to triangle upper B upper D upper C. Since triangles upper A upper B upper C and upper B upper D upper C are similar, it follows that StartFraction upper A upper C Over upper A upper B EndFraction equals StartFraction upper B upper C Over upper B upper D EndFraction. It''s also given that the length of line segment upper A upper B is 15 and the length of line segment upper A upper C is 23 greater than the length of line segment upper A upper B. Therefore, the length of line segment upper A upper C is 15 plus 23, or 38. Substituting 15 for upper A upper B and 38 for upper A upper C in the equation StartFraction upper A upper C Over upper A upper B EndFraction equals StartFraction upper B upper C Over upper B upper D EndFraction yields StartFraction 38 Over 15 EndFraction equals StartFraction upper B upper C Over upper B upper D EndFraction. Therefore, the value of StartFraction upper B upper C Over upper B upper D EndFraction is StartFraction 38 Over 15 EndFraction.\nChoice A is incorrect. This is the value of StartFraction upper B upper D Over upper B upper C EndFraction.\nChoice B is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice C is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-415", "text": "If StartFraction x plus 6 Over 3 EndFraction equals StartFraction x plus 6 Over 13 EndFraction, the value of x plus 6 is between which of the following pairs of values?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["negative 7 and negative 3", "negative 2 and 2", "2 and 7", "8 and 13"], "correct_answer": "B", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice B is correct. Multiplying both sides of the given equation by left parenthesis 3 right parenthesis left parenthesis 13 right parenthesis, or 39, yields left parenthesis 39 right parenthesis left parenthesis StartFraction x plus 6 Over 3 EndFraction right parenthesis equals left parenthesis 39 right parenthesis left parenthesis StartFraction x plus 6 Over 13 EndFraction right parenthesis, or 13 left parenthesis x plus 6 right parenthesis equals 3 left parenthesis x plus 6 right parenthesis. Subtracting 3 left parenthesis x plus 6 right parenthesis from both sides of this equation yields 10 left parenthesis x plus 6 right parenthesis equals 0. Dividing both sides of this equation by 10 yields x plus 6 equals 0. Therefore, if StartFraction x plus 6 Over 3 EndFraction equals StartFraction x plus 6 Over 13 EndFraction, then the value of x plus 6 is 0. It follows that of the given choices, the value of x plus 6 is between negative 2 and 2.\nChoice A is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice C is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice D is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors."}]'::jsonb);
INSERT INTO sat_tests (title, description, test_type, difficulty, length, section, is_official, time_limit_minutes, questions) VALUES ('OpenSAT Math - Hard Set 5','Official-style SAT Math practice (Hard) from OpenSAT — image-free questions only.','math','hard','medium','math',true,38,'[{"id": "opensat-math-mcq-417", "text": "A model estimates that at the end of each year from 2015 to 2020, the number of squirrels in a population was 150 percent sign more than the number of squirrels in the population at the end of the previous year. The model estimates that at the end of 2016, there were 180 squirrels in the population. Which of the following equations represents this model, where n is the estimated number of squirrels in the population t years after the end of 2015 and t less than or equals 5?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["n equals 72 left parenthesis 1.5 right parenthesis Superscript t", "n equals 72 left parenthesis 2.5 right parenthesis Superscript t", "n equals 180 left parenthesis 1.5 right parenthesis Superscript t", "n equals 180 left parenthesis 2.5 right parenthesis Superscript t"], "correct_answer": "B", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice B is correct. Since the model estimates that the number of squirrels in the population increased by a fixed percentage, 150 percent sign, each year, the model can be represented by an exponential equation of the form n equals a left parenthesis 1 plus StartFraction p Over 100 EndFraction right parenthesis Superscript t, where a is the estimated number of squirrels in the population at the end of 2015, and the model estimates that at the end of each year, the number is p percent sign more than the number at the end of the previous year. Since the model estimates that at the end of each year, the number was 150 percent sign more than the number at the end of the previous year, p equals 150. Substituting 150 for p in the equation n equals a left parenthesis 1 plus StartFraction p Over 100 EndFraction right parenthesis Superscript t yields n equals a left parenthesis 1 plus StartFraction 150 Over 100 EndFraction right parenthesis Superscript t, which is equivalent to n equals a left parenthesis 1 plus 1.5 right parenthesis Superscript t, or n equals a left parenthesis 2.5 right parenthesis Superscript t. It\u2019s given that the estimated number of squirrels at the end of 2016 was 180. This means that when t equals 1, n equals 180. Substituting 1 for t and 180 for n in the equation n equals a left parenthesis 2.5 right parenthesis Superscript t yields 180 equals a left parenthesis 2.5 right parenthesis Superscript 1, or 180 equals 2.5 a. Dividing each side of this equation by 2.5 yields 72 equals a. Substituting 72 for a in the equation n equals a left parenthesis 2.5 right parenthesis Superscript t yields n equals 72 left parenthesis 2.5 right parenthesis Superscript t.\nChoice A is incorrect. This equation represents a model where at the end of each year, the estimated number of squirrels was 150 percent sign of, not 150 percent sign more than, the estimated number at the end of the previous year.\nChoice C is incorrect. This equation represents a model where at the end of each year, the estimated number of squirrels was 150 percent sign of, not 150 percent sign more than, the estimated number at the end of the previous year, and the estimated number of squirrels at the end of 2015, not the end of 2016, was 180.\nChoice D is incorrect. This equation represents a model where the estimated number of squirrels at the end of 2015, not the end of 2016, was 180."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-419", "text": "x squared minus 2 x minus 9 equals 0\nOne solution to the given equation can be written as 1 plus StartRoot k EndRoot, where k is a constant. What is the value of k?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["8", "10", "20", "40"], "correct_answer": "B", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice B is correct. Adding 9 to each side of the given equation yields x squared minus 2 x equals 9. To complete the square, adding 1 to each side of this equation yields x squared minus 2 x plus 1 equals 9 plus 1, or left parenthesis x minus 1 right parenthesis squared equals 10. Taking the square root of each side of this equation yields x minus 1 equals plus or minus StartRoot 10 EndRoot. Adding 1 to each side of this equation yields x equals 1 plus or minus StartRoot 10 EndRoot. Since it''s given that one of the solutions to the equation can be written as 1 plus StartRoot k EndRoot, the value of k must be 10.\nAlternate approach: It''s given that 1 plus StartRoot k EndRoot is a solution to the given equation. It follows that x equals 1 plus StartRoot k EndRoot. Substituting 1 plus StartRoot k EndRoot for x in the given equation yields left parenthesis 1 plus StartRoot k EndRoot right parenthesis squared minus 2 left parenthesis 1 plus StartRoot k EndRoot right parenthesis minus 9 equals 0, or left parenthesis 1 plus StartRoot k EndRoot right parenthesis left parenthesis 1 plus StartRoot k EndRoot right parenthesis minus 2 left parenthesis 1 plus StartRoot k EndRoot right parenthesis minus 9 equals 0. Expanding the products on the left-hand side of this equation yields 1 plus 2 StartRoot k EndRoot plus k minus 2 minus 2 StartRoot k EndRoot minus 9 equals 0, or k minus 10 equals 0. Adding 10 to each side of this equation yields k equals 10.\nChoice A is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice C is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice D is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-420", "text": "Near the end of a US cable news show, the host invited viewers to respond to a poll on the show\u2019s website that asked, \u201cDo you support the new federal policy discussed during the show?\u201d At the end of the show, the host reported that 28% responded \u201cYes,\u201d and 70% responded \u201cNo.\u201d Which of the following best explains why the results are unlikely to represent the sentiments of the population of the United States?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["The percentages do not add up to 100%, so any possible conclusions from the poll are invalid.", "Those who responded to the poll were not a random sample of the population of the United States.", "There were not 50% \u201cYes\u201d responses and 50% \u201cNo\u201d responses.", "The show did not allow viewers enough time to respond to the poll."], "correct_answer": "B", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice B is correct. In order for the poll results from a sample of a population to represent the entire population, the sample must be representative of the population. A sample that is randomly selected from a population is more likely than a sample of the type described to represent the population. In this case, the people who responded were people with access to cable television and websites, which aren\u2019t accessible to the entire population. Moreover, the people who responded also chose to watch the show and respond to the poll. The people who made these choices aren\u2019t representative of the entire population of the United States because they were not a random sample of the population of the United States.Choices A, C, and D are incorrect because they present reasons unrelated to whether the sample is representative of the population of the United States."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-423", "text": "y less than or equals x plus 7\ny greater than or equals negative 2 x minus 1\nWhich point left parenthesis x comma y right parenthesis is a solution to the given system of inequalities in the xy-plane?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["left parenthesis negative 14 comma 0 right parenthesis", "left parenthesis 0 comma negative 14 right parenthesis", "left parenthesis 0 comma 14 right parenthesis", "left parenthesis 14 comma 0 right parenthesis"], "correct_answer": "D", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice D is correct. A point left parenthesis x comma y right parenthesis is a solution to a system of inequalities in the xy-plane if substituting the x-coordinate and the y-coordinate of the point for x and y, respectively, in each inequality makes both of the inequalities true. Substituting the x-coordinate and the y-coordinate of choice D, 14 and 0, for x and y, respectively, in the first inequality in the given system, y less than or equals x plus 7, yields 0 less than or equals 14 plus 7, or 0 less than or equals 21, which is true. Substituting 14 for x and 0 for y in the second inequality in the given system, y greater than or equals minus 2 x minus 1, yields 0 greater than or equals minus 2 left parenthesis 14 right parenthesis minus 1, or 0 greater than or equals negative 29, which is true. Therefore, the point left parenthesis 14 comma 0 right parenthesis is a solution to the given system of inequalities in the xy-plane.\nChoice A is incorrect. Substituting negative 14 for x and 0 for y in the inequality y less than or equals x plus 7 yields 0 less than or equals negative 14 plus 7, or 0 less than or equals negative 7, which is not true.\nChoice B is incorrect. Substituting 0 for x and negative 14 for y in the inequality y greater than or equals minus 2 x minus 1 yields negative 14 greater than or equals minus 2 left parenthesis 0 right parenthesis minus 1, or negative 14 greater than or equals negative 1, which is not true.\nChoice C is incorrect. Substituting 0 for x and 14 for y in the inequality y less than or equals x plus 7 yields 14 less than or equals 0 plus 7, or 14 less than or equals 7, which is not true."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-426", "text": "5 x squared plus 10 x plus 16 equals 0\nHow many distinct real solutions does the given equation have?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["Exactly one", "Exactly two", "Infinitely many", "Zero"], "correct_answer": "D", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice D is correct. The number of solutions of a quadratic equation of the form a x squared plus b x plus c equals 0, where a, b, and c are constants, can be determined by the value of the discriminant, b squared minus 4 a c. If the value of the discriminant is positive, then the quadratic equation has exactly two distinct real solutions. If the value of the discriminant is equal to zero, then the quadratic equation has exactly one real solution. If the value of the discriminant is negative, then the quadratic equation has zero real solutions. In the given equation, 5 x squared plus 10 x plus 16 equals 0, a equals 5, b equals 10, and c equals 16. Substituting these values for a, b, and c in b squared minus 4 a c yields left parenthesis 10 right parenthesis squared minus 4 left parenthesis 5 right parenthesis left parenthesis 16 right parenthesis, or negative 220. Since the value of its discriminant is negative, the given equation has zero real solutions. Therefore, the number of distinct real solutions the given equation has is zero.\nChoice A is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice B is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice C is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-437", "text": "The function f is defined by f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals left parenthesis negative 8 right parenthesis left parenthesis 2 right parenthesis Superscript x Baseline plus 22. What is the y-intercept of the graph of y equals f left parenthesis x right parenthesis in the xy-plane?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["left parenthesis 0 comma 14 right parenthesis", "left parenthesis 0 comma 2 right parenthesis", "left parenthesis 0 comma 22 right parenthesis", "left parenthesis 0 comma negative 8 right parenthesis"], "correct_answer": "A", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice A is correct. The y-intercept of the graph of y equals f left parenthesis x right parenthesis in the xy-plane occurs at the point on the graph where x equals 0. In other words, when x equals 0, the corresponding value of f left parenthesis x right parenthesis is the y-coordinate of the y-intercept. Substituting 0 for x in the given equation yields f left parenthesis 0 right parenthesis equals left parenthesis negative 8 right parenthesis left parenthesis 2 right parenthesis Superscript 0 Baseline plus 22, which is equivalent to f left parenthesis 0 right parenthesis equals left parenthesis negative 8 right parenthesis left parenthesis 1 right parenthesis plus 22, or f left parenthesis 0 right parenthesis equals 14. Thus, when x equals 0, the corresponding value of f left parenthesis x right parenthesis is 14. Therefore, the y-intercept of the graph of y equals f left parenthesis x right parenthesis in the xy-plane is left parenthesis 0 comma 14 right parenthesis.\nChoice B is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice C is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice D is incorrect. This could be the y-intercept for f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals left parenthesis negative 8 right parenthesis left parenthesis 2 right parenthesis Superscript x, not f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals left parenthesis negative 8 right parenthesis left parenthesis 2 right parenthesis Superscript x Baseline plus 22."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-443", "text": "Two variables, x and y, are related such that for each increase of 1 in the value of x, the value of y increases by a factor of 4. When x equals 0, y equals 200. Which equation represents this relationship?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["y equals 4 left parenthesis x right parenthesis Superscript 200", "y equals 4 left parenthesis 200 right parenthesis Superscript x", "y equals 200 left parenthesis x right parenthesis Superscript 4", "y equals 200 left parenthesis 4 right parenthesis Superscript x"], "correct_answer": "D", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice D is correct. Since the value of y increases by a constant factor, 4, for each increase of 1 in the value of x, the relationship between x and y is exponential. An exponential relationship between x and y can be represented by an equation of the form y equals a left parenthesis b right parenthesis Superscript x, where a is the value of x when y equals 0 and y increases by a factor of b for each increase of 1 in the value of x. Since y equals 200 when x equals 0, a equals 200. Since y increases by a factor of 4 for each increase of 1 in the value of x, b equals 4. Substituting 200 for a and 4 for b in the equation y equals a left parenthesis b right parenthesis Superscript x yields y equals 200 left parenthesis 4 right parenthesis Superscript x. Thus, the equation y equals 200 left parenthesis 4 right parenthesis Superscript x represents the relationship between x and y.\nChoice A is incorrect and may result from conceptual errors.\nChoice B is incorrect. This equation represents a relationship where for each increase of 1 in the value of x, the value of y increases by a factor of 200, not 4, and when x equals 0, y is equal to 4, not 200.\nChoice C is incorrect and may result from conceptual errors."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-447", "text": "A trivia tournament organizer wanted to study the relationship between the number of points a team scores in a trivia round and the number of hours that a team practices each week. For the study, the organizer selected 55 teams at random from all trivia teams in a certain tournament. The table displays the information for the 40 teams in the sample that practiced for at least 3 hours per week.\n\nHours practiced\nNumber of points per round\n\n6 to 13 points\n14 or more points\nTotal\n\n3 to 5 hours\n6\n4\n10\n\nMore than 5 hours\n4\n26\n30\n\nTotal\n10\n30\n40\n\nWhich of the following is the largest population to which the results of the study can be generalized?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["All trivia teams in the tournament that scored 14 or more points in the round", "The 55 trivia teams in the sample", "The 40 trivia teams in the sample that practiced for at least 3 hours per week", "All trivia teams in the tournament"], "correct_answer": "D", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice D is correct. It''s given that the organizer selected 55 teams at random from all trivia teams in the tournament. A table is also given displaying the information for the 40 teams in the sample that practiced for at least 3 hours per week. Selecting a sample of a reasonable size at random to use for a survey allows the results from that survey to be applied to the population from which the sample was selected, but not beyond this population. Thus, only the sampling method information is necessary to determine the largest population to which the results of the study can be generalized. Since the organizer selected the sample at random from all trivia teams in the tournament, the largest population to which the results of the study can be generalized is all trivia teams in the tournament.\nChoice A is incorrect. The sample was selected at random from all trivia teams in the tournament, not just from the teams that scored an average of 14 or more points per round.\nChoice B is incorrect. If a study uses a sample selected at random from a population, the results of the study can be generalized to the population, not just the sample.\nChoice C is incorrect. If a study uses a sample selected at random from a population, the results of the study can be generalized to the population, not just a subset of the sample."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-448", "text": "A salesperson\u2019s total earnings consist of a base salary of x dollars per year, plus commission earnings of 11 percent sign of the total sales the salesperson makes during the year. This year, the salesperson has a goal for the total earnings to be at least 3 times and at most 4 times the base salary. Which of the following inequalities represents all possible values of total sales s, in dollars, the salesperson can make this year in order to meet that goal?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["2 x less than or equals s less than or equals 3 x", "StartFraction 2 Over 0.11 EndFraction x less than or equals s less than or equals StartFraction 3 Over 0.11 EndFraction x", "3 x less than or equals s less than or equals 4 x", "StartFraction 3 Over 0.11 EndFraction x less than or equals s less than or equals StartFraction 4 Over 0.11 EndFraction x"], "correct_answer": "B", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice B is correct. It\u2019s given that a salesperson''s total earnings consist of a base salary of x dollars per year plus commission earnings of 11 percent sign of the total sales the salesperson makes during the year. If the salesperson makes s dollars in total sales this year, the salesperson\u2019s total earnings can be represented by the expression x plus 0.11 s. It\u2019s also given that the salesperson has a goal for the total earnings to be at least 3 times and at most 4 times the base salary, which can be represented by the expressions 3 x and 4 x, respectively. Therefore, this situation can be represented by the inequality 3 x less than or equals x plus 0.11 s less than or equals 4 x. Subtracting x from each part of this inequality yields 2 x less than or equals 0.11 s less than or equals 3 x. Dividing each part of this inequality by 0.11 yields StartFraction 2 Over 0.11 EndFraction x less than or equals s less than or equals StartFraction 3 Over 0.11 EndFraction x. Therefore, the inequality StartFraction 2 Over 0.11 EndFraction x less than or equals s less than or equals StartFraction 3 Over 0.11 EndFraction x represents all possible values of total sales s, in dollars, the salesperson can make this year in order to meet their goal.\nChoice A is incorrect. This inequality represents a situation in which the total sales, rather than the total earnings, are at least 2 times and at most 3 times, rather than at least 3 times and at most 4 times, the base salary.\nChoice C is incorrect. This inequality represents a situation in which the total sales, rather than the total earnings, are at least 3 times and at most 4 times the base salary.\nChoice D is incorrect. This inequality represents a situation in which the total earnings are at least 4 times and at most 5 times, rather than at least 3 times and at most 4 times, the base salary."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-450", "text": "A psychologist designed and conducted a study to determine whether playing a certain educational game increases middle school students\u2019 accuracy in adding fractions. For the study, the psychologist chose a random sample of 35 students from all of the students at one of the middle schools in a large city. The psychologist found that students who played the game showed significant improvement in accuracy when adding fractions. What is the largest group to which the results of the study can be generalized?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["The 35 students in the sample", "All students at the school", "All middle school students in the city", "All students in the city"], "correct_answer": "B", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice B is correct. The largest group to which the results of a study can be generalized is the population from which the random sample was chosen. In this case, the psychologist chose a random sample from all students at one particular middle school. Therefore, the largest group to which the results can be generalized is all the students at the school.Choice A is incorrect because this isn\u2019t the largest group the results can be generalized to. Choices C and D are incorrect because these groups are larger than the population from which the random sample was chosen. Therefore, the sample isn\u2019t representative of these groups."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-452", "text": "y equals 2 x squared minus 21 x plus 64\ny equals 3 x plus a\nIn the given system of equations, a is a constant. The graphs of the equations in the given system intersect at exactly one point, left parenthesis x comma y right parenthesis, in the xy-plane. What is the value of x?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["negative 8", "negative 6", "6", "8"], "correct_answer": "C", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice C is correct. It''s given that the graphs of the equations in the given system intersect at exactly one point, left parenthesis x comma y right parenthesis, in the xy-plane. Therefore, left parenthesis x comma y right parenthesis is the only solution to the given system of equations. The given system of equations can be solved by subtracting the second equation, y equals 3 x plus a, from the first equation, y equals 2 x squared minus 21 x plus 64. This yields y minus y equals left parenthesis 2 x squared minus 21 x plus 64 right parenthesis minus left parenthesis 3 x plus a right parenthesis, or 0 equals 2 x squared minus 24 x plus 64 minus a. Since the given system has only one solution, this equation has only one solution. A quadratic equation in the form r x squared plus s x plus t equals 0, where r, s, and t are constants, has one solution if and only if the discriminant, s squared minus 4 r t, is equal to zero. Substituting 2 for r, negative 24 for s, and negative a plus 64 for t in the expression s squared minus 4 r t yields left parenthesis negative 24 right parenthesis squared minus left parenthesis 4 right parenthesis left parenthesis 2 right parenthesis left parenthesis 64 minus a right parenthesis. Setting this expression equal to zero yields left parenthesis negative 24 right parenthesis squared minus left parenthesis 4 right parenthesis left parenthesis 2 right parenthesis left parenthesis 64 minus a right parenthesis equals 0, or 8 a plus 64 equals 0. Subtracting 64 from both sides of this equation yields 8 a equals negative 64. Dividing both sides of this equation by 8 yields a equals negative 8. Substituting negative 8 for a in the equation 0 equals 2 x squared minus 24 x plus 64 minus a yields 0 equals 2 x squared minus 24 x plus 64 plus 8, or 0 equals 2 x squared minus 24 x plus 72. Factoring 2 from the right-hand side of this equation yields 0 equals 2 left parenthesis x squared minus 12 x plus 36 right parenthesis. Dividing both sides of this equation by 2 yields 0 equals x squared minus 12 x plus 36, which is equivalent to 0 equals left parenthesis x minus 6 right parenthesis left parenthesis x minus 6 right parenthesis, or 0 equals left parenthesis x minus 6 right parenthesis squared. Taking the square root of both sides of this equation yields 0 equals x minus 6. Adding 6 to both sides of this equation yields x equals 6. \nChoice A is incorrect. This is the value of a, not x.\nChoice B is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice D is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors."}, {"id": "opensat-math-mcq-458", "text": "57 x squared plus left parenthesis 57 b plus a right parenthesis x plus a b equals 0\nIn the given equation, a and b are positive constants. The product of the solutions to the given equation is k a b, where k is a constant. What is the value of k?", "type": "multiple_choice", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "options": ["one fifty seventh", "one nineteenth", "1", "57"], "correct_answer": "A", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "Choice A is correct. The left-hand side of the given equation is the expression 57 x squared plus left parenthesis 57 b plus a right parenthesis x plus a b. Applying the distributive property to this expression yields 57 x squared plus 57 b x plus a x plus a b. Since the first two terms of this expression have a common factor of 57 x and the last two terms of this expression have a common factor of a, this expression can be rewritten as 57 x left parenthesis x plus b right parenthesis plus a left parenthesis x plus b right parenthesis. Since the two terms of this expression have a common factor of left parenthesis x plus b right parenthesis, it can be rewritten as left parenthesis x plus b right parenthesis left parenthesis 57 x plus a right parenthesis. Therefore, the given equation can be rewritten as left parenthesis x plus b right parenthesis left parenthesis 57 x plus a right parenthesis equals 0. By the zero product property, it follows that x plus b equals 0 or 57 x plus a equals 0. Subtracting b from both sides of the equation x plus b equals 0 yields x equals negative b. Subtracting a from both sides of the equation 57 x plus a equals 0 yields 57 x equals negative a. Dividing both sides of this equation by 57 yields x equals StartFraction negative a Over 57 EndFraction. Therefore, the solutions to the given equation are negative b and StartFraction negative a Over 57 EndFraction. It follows that the product of the solutions of the given equation is left parenthesis negative b right parenthesis left parenthesis StartFraction negative a Over 57 EndFraction right parenthesis, or StartFraction a b Over 57 EndFraction. It\u2019s given that the product of the solutions of the given equation is k a b. It follows that StartFraction a b Over 57 EndFraction equals k a b, which can also be written as a b left parenthesis one fifty seventh right parenthesis equals a b left parenthesis k right parenthesis. It\u2019s given that a and b are positive constants. Therefore, dividing both sides of the equation a b left parenthesis one fifty seventh right parenthesis equals a b left parenthesis k right parenthesis by a b yields one fifty seventh equals k. Thus, the value of k is one fifty seventh.\nChoice B is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice C is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.\nChoice D is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-466", "text": "The length of a rectangle\u2019s diagonal is 3 StartRoot 17 EndRoot, and the length of the rectangle\u2019s shorter side is 3. What is the length of the rectangle\u2019s longer side?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": "12", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is 12. The diagonal of a rectangle forms a right triangle, where the shorter side and the longer side of the rectangle are the legs of the triangle and the diagonal of the rectangle is the hypotenuse of the triangle. It''s given that the length of the rectangle''s diagonal is 3 StartRoot 17 EndRoot and the length of the rectangle''s shorter side is 3. Thus, the length of the hypotenuse of the right triangle formed by the diagonal is 3 StartRoot 17 EndRoot and the length of one of the legs is 3. By the Pythagorean theorem, if a right triangle has a hypotenuse with length c and legs with lengths a and b, then a squared plus b squared equals c squared. Substituting 3 StartRoot 17 EndRoot for c and 3 for b in this equation yields a squared plus left parenthesis 3 right parenthesis squared equals left parenthesis 3 StartRoot 17 EndRoot right parenthesis squared, or a squared plus 9 equals 153. Subtracting 9 from both sides of this equation yields a squared equals 144. Taking the square root of both sides of this equation yields a equals plus or minus StartRoot 144 EndRoot, or a equals plus or minus 12. Since a represents a length, which must be positive, the value of a is 12. Thus, the length of the rectangle''s longer side is 12."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-467", "text": "Circle A in the xy-plane has the equation left parenthesis x plus 5 right parenthesis squared plus left parenthesis y minus 5 right parenthesis squared equals 4. Circle B has the same center as circle A. The radius of circle B is two times the radius of circle A. The equation defining circle B in the xy-plane is left parenthesis x plus 5 right parenthesis squared plus left parenthesis y minus 5 right parenthesis squared equals k, where k is a constant. What is the value of k?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": "16", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is 16. An equation of a circle in the xy-plane can be written as left parenthesis x minus t right parenthesis squared plus left parenthesis y minus u right parenthesis squared equals r squared, where the center of the circle is left parenthesis t comma u right parenthesis , the radius of the circle is r, and where t, u, and r are constants. It\u2019s given that the equation of circle A is left parenthesis x plus 5 right parenthesis squared plus left parenthesis y minus 5 right parenthesis squared equals 4, which is equivalent to left parenthesis x plus 5 right parenthesis squared plus left parenthesis y minus 5 right parenthesis squared equals 2 squared. Therefore, the center of circle A is left parenthesis negative 5 comma 5 right parenthesis and the radius of circle A is 2. It\u2019s given that circle B has the same center as circle A and that the radius of circle B is two times the radius of circle A. Therefore, the center of circle B is left parenthesis negative 5 comma 5 right parenthesis and the radius of circle B is 2 left parenthesis 2 right parenthesis, or 4. Substituting negative 5 for t, 5 for u, and 4 for r into the equation left parenthesis x minus t right parenthesis squared plus left parenthesis y minus u right parenthesis squared equals r squared yields left parenthesis x plus 5 right parenthesis squared plus left parenthesis y minus 5 right parenthesis squared equals 4 squared, which is equivalent to left parenthesis x plus 5 right parenthesis squared plus left parenthesis y minus 5 right parenthesis squared equals 16. It follows that the equation of circle B in the xy-plane is left parenthesis x plus 5 right parenthesis squared plus left parenthesis y minus 5 right parenthesis squared equals 16. Therefore, the value of k is 16."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-471", "text": "The graph of x squared plus x plus y squared plus y equals StartFraction 199 Over 2 EndFraction in the xy-plane is a circle. What is the length of the circle\u2019s radius?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": "10", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is 10. It''s given that the graph of x squared plus x plus y squared plus y equals StartFraction 199 Over 2 EndFraction in the xy-plane is a circle. The equation of a circle in the xy-plane can be written in the form left parenthesis x minus h right parenthesis squared plus left parenthesis y minus k right parenthesis squared equals r squared, where the coordinates of the center of the circle are left parenthesis h comma k right parenthesis and the length of the radius of the circle is r. The term left parenthesis x minus h right parenthesis squared in this equation can be obtained by adding the square of half the coefficient of x to both sides of the given equation to complete the square. The coefficient of x is 1. Half the coefficient of x is one half. The square of half the coefficient of x is one fourth. Adding one fourth to each side of left parenthesis x squared plus x right parenthesis plus left parenthesis y squared plus y right parenthesis equals StartFraction 199 Over 2 EndFraction yields left parenthesis x squared plus x plus one fourth right parenthesis plus left parenthesis y squared plus y right parenthesis equals StartFraction 199 Over 2 EndFraction plus one fourth, or left parenthesis x plus one half right parenthesis squared plus left parenthesis y squared plus y right parenthesis equals StartFraction 199 Over 2 EndFraction plus one fourth. Similarly, the term left parenthesis y minus k right parenthesis squared can be obtained by adding the square of half the coefficient of y to both sides of this equation, which yields left parenthesis x plus one half right parenthesis squared plus left parenthesis y squared plus y plus one fourth right parenthesis equals StartFraction 199 Over 2 EndFraction plus one fourth plus one fourth, or left parenthesis x plus one half right parenthesis squared plus left parenthesis y plus one half right parenthesis squared equals StartFraction 199 Over 2 EndFraction plus one fourth plus one fourth. This equation is equivalent to left parenthesis x plus one half right parenthesis squared plus left parenthesis y plus one half right parenthesis squared equals 100, or left parenthesis x plus one half right parenthesis squared plus left parenthesis y plus one half right parenthesis squared equals 10 squared. Therefore, the length of the circle''s radius is 10."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-473", "text": "f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals 4 x squared minus 50 x plus 126\nThe given equation defines the function f. For what value of x does f left parenthesis x right parenthesis reach its minimum?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": "25/4, 6.25", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is StartFraction 25 Over 4 EndFraction. The given equation can be rewritten in the form f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals a left parenthesis x minus h right parenthesis squared plus k, where a, h, and k are constants. When a greater than 0, h is the value of x for which f left parenthesis x right parenthesis reaches its minimum. The given equation can be rewritten as f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals 4 left parenthesis x squared minus StartFraction 50 Over 4 EndFraction x right parenthesis plus 126, which is equivalent to f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals 4 left parenthesis x squared minus StartFraction 50 Over 4 EndFraction x plus left parenthesis StartFraction 50 Over 8 EndFraction right parenthesis squared minus left parenthesis StartFraction 50 Over 8 EndFraction right parenthesis squared right parenthesis plus 126. This equation can be rewritten as f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals 4 left parenthesis left parenthesis x minus StartFraction 50 Over 8 EndFraction right parenthesis squared minus left parenthesis StartFraction 50 Over 8 EndFraction right parenthesis squared right parenthesis plus 126, or f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals 4 left parenthesis x minus StartFraction 50 Over 8 EndFraction right parenthesis squared minus 4 left parenthesis StartFraction 50 Over 8 EndFraction right parenthesis squared plus 126, which is equivalent to f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals 4 left parenthesis x minus StartFraction 25 Over 4 EndFraction right parenthesis squared minus StartFraction 121 Over 4 EndFraction. Therefore, h equals StartFraction 25 Over 4 EndFraction, so the value of x for which f left parenthesis x right parenthesis reaches its minimum is StartFraction 25 Over 4 EndFraction. Note that 25/4 and 6.25 are examples of ways to enter a correct answer."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-474", "text": "The expression 6 RootIndex 5 StartRoot 3 Superscript 5 Baseline x Superscript 45 Baseline EndRoot dot RootIndex 8 StartRoot 2 Superscript 8 Baseline x EndRoot is equivalent to a x Superscript b, where a and b are positive constants and x greater than 1. What is the value of a plus b?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": "361/8, 45.12, 45.13", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is StartFraction 361 Over 8 EndFraction. The rational exponent property is RootIndex n StartRoot y Superscript m Baseline EndRoot equals y Superscript StartFraction m Over n EndFraction, where y greater than 0, m and n are integers, and n greater than 0. This property can be applied to rewrite the given expression 6 RootIndex 5 StartRoot 3 Superscript 5 Baseline x Superscript 45 Baseline EndRoot dot RootIndex 8 StartRoot 2 Superscript 8 Baseline x EndRoot as 6 left parenthesis 3 Superscript five fifths Baseline right parenthesis left parenthesis x Superscript StartFraction 45 Over 5 EndFraction Baseline right parenthesis left parenthesis 2 Superscript eight eighths Baseline right parenthesis left parenthesis x Superscript one eighth Baseline right parenthesis, or 6 left parenthesis 3 right parenthesis left parenthesis x Superscript 9 Baseline right parenthesis left parenthesis 2 right parenthesis left parenthesis x Superscript one eighth Baseline right parenthesis. This expression can be rewritten by multiplying the constants, which gives 36 left parenthesis x Superscript 9 Baseline right parenthesis left parenthesis x Superscript one eighth Baseline right parenthesis. The multiplication exponent property is y Superscript n Baseline dot y Superscript m Baseline equals y Superscript n plus m, where y greater than 0. This property can be applied to rewrite the expression 36 left parenthesis x Superscript 9 Baseline right parenthesis left parenthesis x Superscript one eighth Baseline right parenthesis as 36 x Superscript 9 plus one eighth, or 36 x Superscript StartFraction 73 Over 8 EndFraction. Therefore, 6 RootIndex 5 StartRoot 3 Superscript 5 Baseline x Superscript 45 Baseline EndRoot dot RootIndex 8 StartRoot 2 Superscript 8 Baseline x EndRoot equals 36 x Superscript StartFraction 73 Over 8 EndFraction. It''s given that 6 RootIndex 5 StartRoot 3 Superscript 5 Baseline x Superscript 45 Baseline EndRoot dot RootIndex 8 StartRoot 2 Superscript 8 Baseline x EndRoot is equivalent to a x Superscript b; therefore, a equals 36 and b equals StartFraction 73 Over 8 EndFraction. It follows that a plus b equals 36 plus StartFraction 73 Over 8 EndFraction. Finding a common denominator on the right-hand side of this equation gives a plus b equals StartFraction 288 Over 8 EndFraction plus StartFraction 73 Over 8 EndFraction, or a plus b equals StartFraction 361 Over 8 EndFraction. Note that 361/8, 45.12, and 45.13 are examples of ways to enter a correct answer."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-475", "text": "RootIndex 5 StartRoot 70 n EndRoot left parenthesis RootIndex 6 StartRoot 70 n EndRoot right parenthesis squared\nFor what value of x is the given expression equivalent to left parenthesis 70 n right parenthesis Superscript 30 x, where n greater than 1?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": ".0177, .0178, 4/225", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is StartFraction 4 Over 225 EndFraction. An expression of the form RootIndex k StartRoot a EndRoot, where k is an integer greater than 1 and a greater than or equals 0, is equivalent to a Superscript StartFraction 1 Over k EndFraction. Therefore, the given expression, where n greater than 1, is equivalent to left parenthesis 70 n right parenthesis Superscript one fifth Baseline left parenthesis left parenthesis 70 n right parenthesis Superscript one sixth Baseline right parenthesis squared. Applying properties of exponents, this expression can be rewritten as left parenthesis 70 n right parenthesis Superscript one fifth Baseline left parenthesis 70 n right parenthesis Superscript one sixth dot 2, or left parenthesis 70 n right parenthesis Superscript one fifth Baseline left parenthesis 70 n right parenthesis Superscript one third, which can be rewritten as left parenthesis 70 n right parenthesis Superscript one fifth plus one third, or left parenthesis 70 n right parenthesis Superscript eight fifteenths. It''s given that the expression RootIndex 5 StartRoot 70 n EndRoot left parenthesis RootIndex 6 StartRoot 70 n EndRoot right parenthesis squared is equivalent to left parenthesis 70 n right parenthesis Superscript 30 x, where n greater than 1. It follows that left parenthesis 70 n right parenthesis Superscript eight fifteenths is equivalent to left parenthesis 70 n right parenthesis Superscript 30 x. Therefore, eight fifteenths equals 30 x. Dividing both sides of this equation by 30 yields StartFraction 8 Over 450 EndFraction equals x, or StartFraction 4 Over 225 EndFraction equals x. Thus, the value of x for which the given expression is equivalent to left parenthesis 70 n right parenthesis Superscript 30 x, where n greater than 1, is StartFraction 4 Over 225 EndFraction. Note that 4/225, .0177, .0178, 0.017, and 0.018 are examples of ways to enter a correct answer."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-478", "text": "Triangles italic upper A italic upper B italic upper C and italic upper D italic upper E italic upper F are similar. Each side length of triangle italic upper A italic upper B italic upper C is 4 times the corresponding side length of triangle italic upper D italic upper E italic upper F. The area of triangle italic upper A italic upper B italic upper C is 270 square inches. What is the area, in square inches, of triangle italic upper D italic upper E italic upper F?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": "135/8, 16.87, 16.88", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is StartFraction 135 Over 8 EndFraction. It''s given that triangles italic upper A italic upper B italic upper C and italic upper D italic upper E italic upper F are similar and each side length of triangle italic upper A italic upper B italic upper C is 4 times the corresponding side length of triangle italic upper D italic upper E italic upper F. For two similar triangles, if each side length of the first triangle is k times the corresponding side length of the second triangle, then the area of the first triangle is k squared times the area of the second triangle. Therefore, the area of triangle italic upper A italic upper B italic upper C is 4 squared, or 16, times the area of triangle italic upper D italic upper E italic upper F. It''s given that the area of triangle italic upper A italic upper B italic upper C is 270 square inches. Let a represent the area, in square inches, of triangle italic upper D italic upper E italic upper F. It follows that 270 is 16 times a, or 270 equals 16 a. Dividing both sides of this equation by 16 yields StartFraction 270 Over 16 EndFraction equals a, which is equivalent to StartFraction 135 Over 8 EndFraction equals a. Thus, the area, in square inches, of triangle italic upper D italic upper E italic upper F is StartFraction 135 Over 8 EndFraction. Note that 135/8, 16.87, and 16.88 are examples of ways to enter a correct answer."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-479", "text": "3 left parenthesis k x plus 13 right parenthesis equals StartFraction 48 Over 17 EndFraction x plus 36\nIn the given equation, k is a constant. The equation has no solution. What is the value of k?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": ".9411, .9412, 16/17", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is StartFraction 16 Over 17 EndFraction. It''s given that the equation 3 left parenthesis k x plus 13 right parenthesis equals StartFraction 48 Over 17 EndFraction x plus 36 has no solution. A linear equation in the form a x plus b equals c x plus d, where a, b, c, and d are constants, has no solution only when the coefficients of x on each side of the equation are equal and the constant terms aren''t equal. Dividing both sides of the given equation by 3 yields k x plus 13 equals StartFraction 48 Over 51 EndFraction x plus StartFraction 36 Over 3 EndFraction, or k x plus 13 equals StartFraction 16 Over 17 EndFraction x plus 12. Since the coefficients of x on each side of the equation must be equal, it follows that the value of k is StartFraction 16 Over 17 EndFraction. Note that 16/17, .9411, .9412, and 0.941 are examples of ways to enter a correct answer."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-482", "text": "A right rectangular prism has a length of 28 centimeters left parenthesis cm right parenthesis, a width of 15 cm, and a height of 16 cm. What is the surface area, in cm squared, of the right rectangular prism?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": "2216", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is 2,216. The surface area of a prism is the sum of the areas of all its faces. A right rectangular prism consists of six rectangular faces, where opposite faces are congruent. It''s given that this prism has a length of 28 cm, a width of 15 cm, and a height of 16 cm. Thus, for this prism, there are two faces with area left parenthesis 28 right parenthesis left parenthesis 15 right parenthesis cm squared, two faces with area left parenthesis 28 right parenthesis left parenthesis 16 right parenthesis cm squared, and two faces with area left parenthesis 15 right parenthesis left parenthesis 16 right parenthesis cm squared. Therefore, the surface area, in cm squared, of the right rectangular prism is 2 left parenthesis 28 right parenthesis left parenthesis 15 right parenthesis plus 2 left parenthesis 28 right parenthesis left parenthesis 16 right parenthesis plus 2 left parenthesis 15 right parenthesis left parenthesis 16 right parenthesis, or 2,216."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-483", "text": "Counterclockwise from top right, the lines are labeled s, r, q, and t.\nLine s intersects line r above line q.\nLine s and line r each intersect line q and line t.\nAt the intersection of line s and line r, 1 angle is labeled counterclockwise from top as follows:\n\nTop: a\u00b0\n\nAt the intersection of line s and line q, 1 angle is labeled counterclockwise from top-left as follows:\n\nTop left: b\u00b0\n\nAt the intersection of line r and line t:\n\nThe line segment divides the bottom-left angle into two equal angles, each labeled w\u00b0.\n\nA note indicates the figure is not drawn to scale.\n\nIn the figure, parallel lines q and t are intersected by lines r and s. If a equals 43 and b equals 122, what is the value of w?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": "101/2, 50.5", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is StartFraction 101 Over 2 EndFraction. In the figure, lines q, r, and s form a triangle. One interior angle of this triangle is vertical to the angle marked a degree; therefore, the interior angle also has measure a degree. It''s given that a equals 43. Therefore, the interior angle of the triangle has measure 43 degree. A second interior angle of the triangle forms a straight line, q, with the angle marked b degree. Therefore, the sum of the measures of these two angles is 180 degree. It''s given that b equals 122. Therefore, the angle marked b degree has measure 122 degree and the second interior angle of the triangle has measure left parenthesis 180 minus 122 right parenthesis degree, or 58 degree. The sum of the interior angles of a triangle is 180 degree. Therefore, the measure of the third interior angle of the triangle is left parenthesis 180 minus 43 minus 58 right parenthesis degree, or 79 degree. It''s given that parallel lines q and t are intersected by line r. It follows that the triangle''s interior angle with measure 79 degree is congruent to the same side interior angle between lines q and t formed by lines t and r. Since this angle is supplementary to the two angles marked w degree, the sum of 79 degree, w degree, and w degree is 180 degree. It follows that 79 plus w plus w equals 180, or 79 plus 2 w equals 180. Subtracting 79 from both sides of this equation yields 2 w equals 101. Dividing both sides of this equation by 2 yields w equals StartFraction 101 Over 2 EndFraction. Note that 101/2 and 50.5 are examples of ways to enter a correct answer."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-493", "text": "x squared minus 34 x plus c equals 0\nIn the given equation, c is a constant. The equation has no real solutions if c greater than n. What is the least possible value of n?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": "289", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is 289. A quadratic equation of the form a x squared plus b x plus c equals 0, where a, b, and c are constants, has no real solutions when the value of the discriminant, b squared minus 4 a c, is less than 0. In the given equation, x squared minus 34 x plus c equals 0, a equals 1 and b equals negative 34. Therefore, the discriminant of the given equation can be expressed as left parenthesis negative 34 right parenthesis squared minus 4 left parenthesis 1 right parenthesis left parenthesis c right parenthesis, or 1,156 minus 4 c. It follows that the given equation has no real solutions when 1,156 minus 4 c less than 0. Adding 4 c to both sides of this inequality yields 1,156 less than 4 c. Dividing both sides of this inequality by 4 yields 289 less than c, or c greater than 289. It''s given that the equation x squared minus 34 x plus c equals 0 has no real solutions when c greater than n. Therefore, the least possible value of n is 289."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-494", "text": "The number a is 70 percent sign less than the positive number b. The number c is 80 percent sign greater than a. The number c is how many times b?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": ".54, 27/50", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is .54. It''s given that the number a is 70 percent sign less than the positive number b. Therefore, a equals left parenthesis 1 minus StartFraction 70 Over 100 EndFraction right parenthesis b, which is equivalent to a equals left parenthesis 1 minus 0.70 right parenthesis b, or a equals 0.30 b. It''s also given that the number c is 80 percent sign greater than a. Therefore, c equals left parenthesis 1 plus StartFraction 80 Over 100 EndFraction right parenthesis a, which is equivalent to c equals left parenthesis 1 plus 0.80 right parenthesis a, or c equals 1.80 a. Since a equals 0.30 b, substituting 0.30 b for a in the equation c equals 1.80 a yields c equals 1.80 left parenthesis 0.30 b right parenthesis, or c equals 0.54 b. Thus, c is 0.54 times b. Note that .54 and 27/50 are examples of ways to enter a correct answer."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-496", "text": "The functions f and g are defined as f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals one fourth x minus 9 and g left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals three fourths x plus 21. If the function h is defined as h left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals f left parenthesis x right parenthesis plus g left parenthesis x right parenthesis, what is the x-coordinate of the x-intercept of the graph of y equals h left parenthesis x right parenthesis in the xy-plane?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": "-12", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is negative 12. It''s given that the functions f and g are defined as f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals one fourth x minus 9 and g left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals three fourths x plus 21. If the function h is defined as h left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals f left parenthesis x right parenthesis plus g left parenthesis x right parenthesis, then substituting one fourth x minus 9 for f left parenthesis x right parenthesis and three fourths x plus 21 for g left parenthesis x right parenthesis in this function yields h left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals one fourth x minus 9 plus three fourths x plus 21. This can be rewritten as h left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals four fourths x plus 12, or h left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals x plus 12. The x-intercept of a graph in the xy-plane is the point on the graph where y equals 0. The equation representing the graph of y equals h left parenthesis x right parenthesis is y equals x plus 12. Substituting 0 for y in this equation yields 0 equals x plus 12. Subtracting 12 from both sides of this equation yields negative 12 equals x, or x equals negative 12. Therefore, the x-coordinate of the x-intercept of the graph of y equals h left parenthesis x right parenthesis in the xy-plane is negative 12."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-501", "text": "0.36 x squared plus 0.63 x plus 1.17\nThe given expression can be rewritten as a left parenthesis 4 x squared plus 7 x plus 13 right parenthesis, where a is a constant. What is the value of a?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": ".09, 9/100", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is .09. It''s given that the expression 0.36 x squared plus 0.63 x plus 1.17 can be rewritten as a left parenthesis 4 x squared plus 7 x plus 13 right parenthesis. Applying the distributive property to the expression a left parenthesis 4 x squared plus 7 x plus 13 right parenthesis yields 4 a x squared plus 7 a x plus 13 a. Therefore, 0.36 x squared plus 0.63 x plus 1.17 can be rewritten as 4 a x squared plus 7 a x plus 13 a. It follows that in the expressions 0.36 x squared plus 0.63 x plus 1.17 and 4 a x squared plus 7 a x plus 13 a, the coefficients of x squared are equivalent, the coefficients of x are equivalent, and the constant terms are equivalent. Therefore, 0.36 equals 4 a, 0.63 equals 7 a, and 1.17 equals 13 a. Solving any of these equations for a yields the value of a. Dividing both sides of the equation 0.36 equals 4 a by 4 yields 0.09 equals a. Therefore, the value of a is 0.09. Note that .09 and 9/100 are examples of ways to enter a correct answer."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-502", "text": "The number a is 110 percent sign greater than the number b. The number b is 90 percent sign less than 47. What is the value of a?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": "9.87, 987/100", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is 9.87. It\u2019s given that the number a is 110 percent sign greater than the number b. It follows that a equals left parenthesis 1 plus StartFraction 110 Over 100 EndFraction right parenthesis b, or a equals 2.1 b. It\u2019s also given that the number b is 90 percent sign less than 47. It follows that b equals left parenthesis 1 minus StartFraction 90 Over 100 EndFraction right parenthesis left parenthesis 47 right parenthesis, or b equals 0.1 left parenthesis 47 right parenthesis, which yields b equals 4.7. Substituting 4.7 for b in the equation a equals 2.1 b yields a equals 2.1 left parenthesis 4.7 right parenthesis, which is equivalent to a equals 9.87. Therefore, the value of a is 9.87."}]'::jsonb);
INSERT INTO sat_tests (title, description, test_type, difficulty, length, section, is_official, time_limit_minutes, questions) VALUES ('OpenSAT Math - Hard Set 6','Official-style SAT Math practice (Hard) from OpenSAT — image-free questions only.','math','hard','medium','math',true,38,'[{"id": "opensat-math-spr-503", "text": "A gift shop buys souvenirs at a wholesale price of 7.00 dollars each and resells them each at a retail price that is 290 percent sign of the wholesale price. At the end of the season, any remaining souvenirs are marked at a discounted price that is 80 percent sign off the retail price. What is the discounted price of each remaining souvenir, in dollars?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": "203/50, 4.06", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is 4.06. It''s given that the retail price is 290 percent sign of the wholesale price of dollar sign 7.00. Thus, the retail price is dollar sign 7.00 left parenthesis StartFraction 290 Over 100 EndFraction right parenthesis, which is equivalent to dollar sign 7.00 left parenthesis 2.9 right parenthesis, or dollar sign 20.30. It''s also given that the discounted price is 80 percent sign off the retail price. Thus, the discounted price is dollar sign 20.30 left parenthesis 1 minus StartFraction 80 Over 100 EndFraction right parenthesis, which is equivalent to dollar sign 20.30 left parenthesis 0.20 right parenthesis, or dollar sign 4.06."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-504", "text": "If 3 x squared minus 18 x minus 15 equals 0, what is the value of x squared minus 6 x?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": "5", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is 5. Dividing each side of the given equation by 3 yields x squared minus 6 x minus 5 equals 0. Adding 5 to each side of this equation yields x squared minus 6 x equals 5. Therefore, if 3 x squared minus 18 x minus 15 equals 0, the value of x squared minus 6 x is 5."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-505", "text": "5 x plus 14 y equals 45\n10 x plus 7 y equals 27\nThe solution to the given system of equations is left parenthesis x comma y right parenthesis. What is the value of x y?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": "1.8, 9/5", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is nine fifths. Multiplying the first equation in the given system by 2 yields 10 x plus 28 y equals 90. Subtracting the second equation in the given system, 10 x plus 7 y equals 27, from 10 x plus 28 y equals 90 yields left parenthesis 10 x plus 28 y right parenthesis minus left parenthesis 10 x plus 7 y right parenthesis equals 90 minus 27, which is equivalent to 10 x plus 28 y minus 10 x minus 7 y equals 63, or 21 y equals 63. Dividing both sides of this equation by 21 yields y equals 3. The value of x can be found by substituting 3 for y in either of the two given equations. Substituting 3 for y in the equation 10 x plus 7 y equals 27 yields 10 x plus 7 left parenthesis 3 right parenthesis equals 27, or 10 x plus 21 equals 27. Subtracting 21 from both sides of this equation yields 10 x equals 6. Dividing both sides of this equation by 10 yields x equals six tenths, or x equals three fifths. Therefore, the value of x y is left parenthesis three fifths right parenthesis left parenthesis 3 right parenthesis, or nine fifths. Note that 9/5 and 1.8 are examples of ways to enter a correct answer."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-513", "text": "The number a is 70 percent sign less than the positive number b. The number c is 60 percent sign greater than a. The number c is how many times b?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": ".48, 12/25", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is .48. It''s given that the number a is 70 percent sign less than the positive number b. Therefore, a equals left parenthesis 1 minus StartFraction 70 Over 100 EndFraction right parenthesis b, which is equivalent to a equals left parenthesis 1 minus 0.70 right parenthesis b, or a equals 0.30 b. It''s also given that the number c is 60 percent sign greater than a. Therefore, c equals left parenthesis 1 plus StartFraction 60 Over 100 EndFraction right parenthesis a, which is equivalent to c equals left parenthesis 1 plus 0.60 right parenthesis a, or c equals 1.60 a. Since a equals 0.30 b, substituting 0.30 b for a in the equation c equals 1.60 a yields c equals 1.60 left parenthesis 0.30 b right parenthesis, or c equals 0.48 b. Thus, c is 0.48 times b. Note that .48 and 12/25 are examples of ways to enter a correct answer."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-515", "text": "x\ny\n\nk\n13\n\nk plus 7\nnegative 15\n\nThe table gives the coordinates of two points on a line in the xy-plane. The y-intercept of the line is left parenthesis k minus 5 comma b right parenthesis, where k and b are constants. What is the value of b?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": "33", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is 33. It\u2019s given in the table that the coordinates of two points on a line in the xy-plane are left parenthesis k comma 13 right parenthesis and left parenthesis k plus 7 comma negative 15 right parenthesis. The y-intercept is another point on the line. The slope computed using any pair of points from the line will be the same. The slope of a line, m, between any two points, left parenthesis x 1 comma y 1 right parenthesis and left parenthesis x 2 comma y 2 right parenthesis, on the line can be calculated using the slope formula, m equals StartFraction left parenthesis y 2 minus y 1 right parenthesis Over left parenthesis x 2 minus x 1 right parenthesis EndFraction. It follows that the slope of the line with the given points from the table, left parenthesis k comma 13 right parenthesis and left parenthesis k plus 7 comma negative 15 right parenthesis, is m equals StartFraction negative 15 minus 13 Over k plus 7 minus k EndFraction, which is equivalent to m equals StartFraction negative 28 Over 7 EndFraction, or m equals negative 4. It''s given that the y-intercept of the line is left parenthesis k minus 5 comma b right parenthesis. Substituting negative 4 for m and the coordinates of the points left parenthesis k minus 5 comma b right parenthesis and left parenthesis k comma 13 right parenthesis into the slope formula yields negative 4 equals StartFraction 13 minus b Over k minus left parenthesis k minus 5 right parenthesis EndFraction, which is equivalent to negative 4 equals StartFraction 13 minus b Over k minus k plus 5 EndFraction, or negative 4 equals StartFraction 13 minus b Over 5 EndFraction. Multiplying both sides of this equation by 5 yields negative 20 equals 13 minus b. Subtracting 13 from both sides of this equation yields negative 33 equals negative b. Dividing both sides of this equation by negative 1 yields b equals 33. Therefore, the value of b is 33."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-517", "text": "24 x plus y equals 48\n6 x plus y equals 72\nThe solution to the given system of equations is left parenthesis x comma y right parenthesis. What is the value of y?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": "80", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is 80. Subtracting the second equation in the given system from the first equation yields left parenthesis 24 x plus y right parenthesis minus left parenthesis 6 x plus y right parenthesis equals 48 minus 72, which is equivalent to 24 x minus 6 x plus y minus y equals negative 24, or 18 x equals negative 24. Dividing each side of this equation by 3 yields 6 x equals negative 8. Substituting negative 8 for 6 x in the second equation yields negative 8 plus y equals 72. Adding 8 to both sides of this equation yields y equals 80. \nAlternate approach: Multiplying each side of the second equation in the given system by 4 yields 24 x plus 4 y equals 288. Subtracting the first equation in the given system from this equation yields left parenthesis 24 x plus 4 y right parenthesis minus left parenthesis 24 x plus y right parenthesis equals 288 minus 48, which is equivalent to 24 x minus 24 x plus 4 y minus y equals 240, or 3 y equals 240. Dividing each side of this equation by 3 yields y equals 80."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-519", "text": "The number w is 110 percent sign greater than the number z. The number z is 55 percent sign less than 50. What is the value of w?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": "189/4, 47.25", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is 47.25. It\u2019s given that the number w is 110 percent sign greater than the number z. It follows that w equals left parenthesis 1 plus StartFraction 110 Over 100 EndFraction right parenthesis z, or w equals 2.1 z. It\u2019s also given that the number z is 55 percent sign less than 50. It follows that z equals left parenthesis 1 minus StartFraction 55 Over 100 EndFraction right parenthesis left parenthesis 50 right parenthesis, or z equals 0.45 left parenthesis 50 right parenthesis, which yields z equals 22.5. Substituting 22.5 for z in the equation w equals 2.1 z yields w equals 2.1 left parenthesis 22.5 right parenthesis, which is equivalent to w equals 47.25. Therefore, the value of w is 47.25. Note that 47.25 and 189/4 are examples of ways to enter a correct answer."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-520", "text": "The expression left parenthesis 3 x minus 23 right parenthesis left parenthesis 19 x plus 6 right parenthesis is equivalent to the expression a x squared plus b x plus c, where a, b, and c are constants. What is the value of b?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": "-419", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is negative 419. It''s given that the expression left parenthesis 3 x minus 23 right parenthesis left parenthesis 19 x plus 6 right parenthesis is equivalent to the expression a x squared plus b x plus c, where a, b, and c are constants. Applying the distributive property to the given expression, left parenthesis 3 x minus 23 right parenthesis left parenthesis 19 x plus 6 right parenthesis, yields left parenthesis 3 x right parenthesis left parenthesis 19 x right parenthesis plus left parenthesis 3 x right parenthesis left parenthesis 6 right parenthesis minus left parenthesis 23 right parenthesis left parenthesis 19 x right parenthesis minus left parenthesis 23 right parenthesis left parenthesis 6 right parenthesis, which can be rewritten as 57 x squared plus 18 x minus 437 x minus 138. Combining like terms yields 57 x squared minus 419 x minus 138. Since this expression is equivalent to a x squared plus b x plus c, it follows that the value of b is negative 419."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-522", "text": "minus 16 x squared minus 8 x plus c equals 0\nIn the given equation, c is a constant. The equation has exactly one solution. What is the value of c?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": "-1", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is negative 1. A quadratic equation in the form a x squared plus b x plus c equals 0, where a, b, and c are constants, has exactly one solution when its discriminant, b squared minus 4 a c, is equal to 0. In the given equation, minus 16 x squared minus 8 x plus c equals 0, a equals negative 16 and b equals negative 8. Substituting negative 16 for a and negative 8 for b in b squared minus 4 a c yields left parenthesis negative 8 right parenthesis squared minus 4 left parenthesis negative 16 right parenthesis left parenthesis c right parenthesis, or 64 plus 64 c. Since the given equation has exactly one solution, 64 plus 64 c equals 0. Subtracting 64 from both sides of this equation yields 64 c equals negative 64. Dividing both sides of this equation by 64 yields c equals negative 1. Therefore, the value of c is negative 1."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-525", "text": "Function f is defined by f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals minus a Superscript x Baseline plus b, where a and b are constants. In the xy-plane, the graph of y equals f left parenthesis x right parenthesis minus 12 has a y-intercept at left parenthesis 0 comma negative StartFraction 75 Over 7 EndFraction right parenthesis. The product of a and b is StartFraction 320 Over 7 EndFraction. What is the value of a?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": "20", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is 20. It\u2019s given that f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals minus a Superscript x Baseline plus b. Substituting minus a Superscript x plus b for f left parenthesis x right parenthesis in the equation y equals f left parenthesis x right parenthesis minus 12 yields y equals minus a Superscript x Baseline plus b minus 12. It\u2019s given that the y-intercept of the graph of y equals f left parenthesis x right parenthesis minus 12 is left parenthesis 0 comma negative StartFraction 75 Over 7 EndFraction right parenthesis. Substituting 0 for x and negative StartFraction 75 Over 7 EndFraction for y in the equation y equals minus a Superscript x Baseline plus b minus 12 yields negative StartFraction 75 Over 7 EndFraction equals minus a Superscript 0 Baseline plus b minus 12, which is equivalent to negative StartFraction 75 Over 7 EndFraction equals negative 1 plus b minus 12, or negative StartFraction 75 Over 7 EndFraction equals b minus 13. Adding 13 to both sides of this equation yields StartFraction 16 Over 7 EndFraction equals b. It\u2019s given that the product of a and b is StartFraction 320 Over 7 EndFraction, or a b equals StartFraction 320 Over 7 EndFraction. Substituting StartFraction 16 Over 7 EndFraction for b in this equation yields left parenthesis a right parenthesis left parenthesis StartFraction 16 Over 7 EndFraction right parenthesis equals StartFraction 320 Over 7 EndFraction. Dividing both sides of this equation by StartFraction 16 Over 7 EndFraction yields a equals 20."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-529", "text": "The regular price of a shirt at a store is dollar sign 11.70. The sale price of the shirt is 80 percent sign less than the regular price, and the sale price is 30 percent sign greater than the store''s cost for the shirt. What was the store\u2019s cost, in dollars, for the shirt? (Disregard the dollar sign sign when entering your answer. For example, if your answer is dollar sign 4.97, enter 4.97)", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": "1.8, 9/5", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is 1.8. It\u2019s given that the regular price of a shirt at a store is dollar sign 11.70, and the sale price of the shirt is 80 percent sign less than the regular price. It follows that the sale price of the shirt is dollar sign 11.70 left parenthesis 1 minus StartFraction 80 Over 100 EndFraction right parenthesis, or dollar sign 11.70 left parenthesis 1 minus 0.8 right parenthesis, which is equivalent to dollar sign 2.34. It\u2019s also given that the sale price of the shirt is 30 percent sign greater than the store\u2019s cost for the shirt. Let x represent the store\u2019s cost for the shirt. It follows that 2.34 equals left parenthesis 1 plus StartFraction 30 Over 100 EndFraction right parenthesis x, or 2.34 equals 1.3 x. Dividing both sides of this equation by 1.3 yields x equals 1.80. Therefore, the store\u2019s cost, in dollars, for the shirt is 1.80. Note that 1.8 and 9/5 are examples of ways to enter a correct answer."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-530", "text": "Square A has side lengths that are 166 times the side lengths of square B. The area of square A is k times the area of square B. What is the value of k?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": "27556", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is 27,556. The area of a square is s squared, where s is the side length of the square. Let x represent the length of each side of square B. Substituting x for s in s squared yields x squared. It follows that the area of square B is x squared. It\u2019s given that square A has side lengths that are 166 times the side lengths of square B. Since x represents the length of each side of square B, the length of each side of square A can be represented by the expression 166 x. It follows that the area of square A is left parenthesis 166 x right parenthesis squared, or 27,556 x squared. It\u2019s given that the area of square A is k times the area of square B. Since the area of square A is equal to 27,556 x squared, and the area of square B is equal to x squared, an equation representing the given statement is 27,556 x squared equals k x squared. Since x represents the length of each side of square B, the value of x must be positive. Therefore, the value of x squared is also positive, so it does not equal 0. Dividing by x squared on both sides of the equation 27,556 x squared equals k x squared yields 27,556 equals k. Therefore, the value of k is 27,556."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-531", "text": "A cube has a volume of 474,552 cubic units. What is the surface area, in square units, of the cube?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": "36504", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is 36,504. The volume of a cube can be found using the formula upper V equals s cubed, where s represents the edge length of a cube. It\u2019s given that this cube has a volume of 474,552 cubic units. Substituting 474,552 for upper V in upper V equals s cubed yields 474,552 equals s cubed. Taking the cube root of both sides of this equation yields 78 equals s. Thus, the edge length of the cube is 78 units. Since each face of a cube is a square, it follows that each face has an edge length of 78 units. The area of a square can be found using the formula upper A equals s squared. Substituting 78 for s in this formula yields upper A equals 78 squared, or upper A equals 6,084. Therefore, the area of one face of this cube is 6,084 square units. Since a cube has 6 faces, the surface area, in square units, of this cube is 6 left parenthesis 6,084 right parenthesis, or 36,504."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-532", "text": "Function f is defined by f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals minus a Superscript x Baseline plus b, where a and b are constants. In the xy-plane, the graph of y equals f left parenthesis x right parenthesis minus 15 has a y-intercept at left parenthesis 0 comma negative StartFraction 99 Over 7 EndFraction right parenthesis. The product of a and b is StartFraction 65 Over 7 EndFraction. What is the value of a?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": "5", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is 5. It\u2019s given that f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals minus a Superscript x Baseline plus b. Substituting minus a Superscript x plus b for f left parenthesis x right parenthesis in the equation y equals f left parenthesis x right parenthesis minus 15 yields y equals minus a Superscript x Baseline plus b minus 15. It\u2019s given that the y-intercept of the graph of y equals f left parenthesis x right parenthesis minus 15 is left parenthesis 0 comma negative StartFraction 99 Over 7 EndFraction right parenthesis. Substituting 0 for x and negative StartFraction 99 Over 7 EndFraction for y in the equation y equals minus a Superscript x Baseline plus b minus 15 yields negative StartFraction 99 Over 7 EndFraction equals minus a Superscript 0 Baseline plus b minus 15, which is equivalent to negative StartFraction 99 Over 7 EndFraction equals negative 1 plus b minus 15, or negative StartFraction 99 Over 7 EndFraction equals b minus 16. Adding 16 to both sides of this equation yields StartFraction 13 Over 7 EndFraction equals b. It\u2019s given that the product of a and b is StartFraction 65 Over 7 EndFraction, or a b equals StartFraction 65 Over 7 EndFraction. Substituting StartFraction 13 Over 7 EndFraction for b in this equation yields left parenthesis a right parenthesis left parenthesis StartFraction 13 Over 7 EndFraction right parenthesis equals StartFraction 65 Over 7 EndFraction. Dividing both sides of this equation by StartFraction 13 Over 7 EndFraction yields a equals 5."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-534", "text": "A right circular cone has a height of 22 centimeters left parenthesis cm right parenthesis and a base with a diameter of 6 cm. The volume of this cone is n pi cm cubed. What is the value of n?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": "66", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is 66. It\u2019s given that the right circular cone has a height of 22 centimeters left parenthesis cm right parenthesis and a base with a diameter of 6 cm. Since the diameter of the base of the cone is 6 cm, the radius of the base is 3 cm. The volume upper V, in cm cubed, of a right circular cone can be found using the formula upper V equals one third pi r squared h, where h is the height, in cm, and r is the radius, in cm, of the base of the cone. Substituting 22 for h and 3 for r in this formula yields upper V equals one third pi left parenthesis 3 right parenthesis squared left parenthesis 22 right parenthesis, or upper V equals 66 pi. Therefore, the volume of the cone is 66 pi italic cm cubed. It\u2019s given that the volume of the cone is n pi italic cm cubed. Therefore, the value of n is 66."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-536", "text": "5 left parenthesis t plus 3 right parenthesis minus 7 left parenthesis t plus 3 right parenthesis equals 38\nWhat value of t is the solution to the given equation?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": "-22", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is negative 22. The given equation can be rewritten as minus 2 left parenthesis t plus 3 right parenthesis equals 38. Dividing both sides of this equation by negative 2 yields t plus 3 equals negative 19. Subtracting 3 from both sides of this equation yields t equals negative 22. Therefore, negative 22 is the value of t that is the solution to the given equation."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-537", "text": "A certain apprentice has enrolled in 85 hours of training courses. The equation 10 x plus 15 y equals 85 represents this situation, where x is the number of on-site training courses and y is the number of online training courses this apprentice has enrolled in. How many more hours does each online training course take than each on-site training course?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": "5", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is 5. It''s given that the equation 10 x plus 15 y equals 85 represents the situation, where x is the number of on-site training courses, y is the number of online training courses, and 85 is the total number of hours of training courses the apprentice has enrolled in. Therefore, 10 x represents the number of hours the apprentice has enrolled in on-site training courses, and 15 y represents the number of hours the apprentice has enrolled in online training courses. Since x is the number of on-site training courses and y is the number of online training courses the apprentice has enrolled in, 10 is the number of hours each on-site course takes and 15 is the number of hours each online course takes. Subtracting these numbers gives 15 minus 10, or 5 more hours each online training course takes than each on-site training course."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-538", "text": "In triangle upper R upper S upper T, angle upper T is a right angle, point upper L lies on line segment upper R upper S, point upper K lies on line segment upper S upper T, and line segment upper L upper K is parallel to line segment upper R upper T. If the length of line segment upper R upper T is 72 units, the length of line segment upper L upper K is 24 units, and the area of triangle upper R upper S upper T is 792 square units, what is the length of line segment upper K upper T, in units?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": "14.66, 14.67, 44/3", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is StartFraction 44 Over 3 EndFraction. It''s given that in triangle upper R upper S upper T, angle upper T is a right angle. The area of a right triangle can be found using the formula upper A equals one half script l 1 script l 2, where upper A represents the area of the right triangle, script l 1 represents the length of one leg of the triangle, and script l 2 represents the length of the other leg of the triangle. In triangle upper R upper S upper T, the two legs are line segment upper R upper T and line segment upper S upper T. Therefore, if the length of line segment upper R upper T is 72 and the area of triangle upper R upper S upper T is 792, then 792 equals one half left parenthesis 72 right parenthesis left parenthesis upper S upper T right parenthesis, or 792 equals left parenthesis 36 right parenthesis left parenthesis upper S upper T right parenthesis. Dividing both sides of this equation by 36 yields 22 equals upper S upper T. Therefore, the length of line segment upper S upper T is 22. It''s also given that point upper L lies on line segment upper R upper S, point upper K lies on line segment upper S upper T, and line segment upper L upper K is parallel to line segment upper R upper T. It follows that angle upper L upper K upper S is a right angle. Since triangles upper R upper S upper T and upper L upper S upper K share angle upper S and have right angles upper T and upper K, respectively, triangles upper R upper S upper T and upper L upper S upper K are similar triangles. Therefore, the ratio of the length of line segment upper R upper T to the length of line segment upper L upper K is equal to the ratio of the length of line segment upper S upper T to the length of line segment upper S upper K. If the length of line segment upper R upper T is 72 and the length of line segment upper L upper K is 24, it follows that the ratio of the length of line segment upper R upper T to the length of line segment upper L upper K is StartFraction 72 Over 24 EndFraction, or 3, so the ratio of the length of line segment upper S upper T to the length of line segment upper S upper K is 3. Therefore, StartFraction 22 Over upper S upper K EndFraction equals 3. Multiplying both sides of this equation by upper S upper K yields 22 equals left parenthesis 3 right parenthesis left parenthesis upper S upper K right parenthesis. Dividing both sides of this equation by 3 yields StartFraction 22 Over 3 EndFraction equals upper S upper K. Since the length of line segment upper S upper T, 22, is the sum of the length of line segment upper S upper K, StartFraction 22 Over 3 EndFraction, and the length of line segment upper K upper T, it follows that the length of line segment upper K upper T is 22 minus StartFraction 22 Over 3 EndFraction, or StartFraction 44 Over 3 EndFraction. Note that 44/3, 14.66, and 14.67 are examples of ways to enter a correct answer."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-540", "text": "The function f is defined by f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals left parenthesis x minus 6 right parenthesis left parenthesis x minus 2 right parenthesis left parenthesis x plus 6 right parenthesis. In the xy-plane, the graph of y equals g left parenthesis x right parenthesis is the result of translating the graph of y equals f left parenthesis x right parenthesis up 4 units. What is the value of g left parenthesis 0 right parenthesis?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": "76", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is 76. It''s given that the graph of y equals g left parenthesis x right parenthesis is the result of translating the graph of y equals f left parenthesis x right parenthesis up 4 units in the xy-plane. It follows that the graph of y equals g left parenthesis x right parenthesis is the same as the graph of y equals f left parenthesis x right parenthesis plus 4. Substituting g left parenthesis x right parenthesis for y in the equation y equals f left parenthesis x right parenthesis plus 4 yields g left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals f left parenthesis x right parenthesis plus 4. It''s given that f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals left parenthesis x minus 6 right parenthesis left parenthesis x minus 2 right parenthesis left parenthesis x plus 6 right parenthesis. Substituting left parenthesis x minus 6 right parenthesis left parenthesis x minus 2 right parenthesis left parenthesis x plus 6 right parenthesis for f left parenthesis x right parenthesis in the equation g left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals f left parenthesis x right parenthesis plus 4 yields g left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals left parenthesis x minus 6 right parenthesis left parenthesis x minus 2 right parenthesis left parenthesis x plus 6 right parenthesis plus 4. Substituting 0 for x in this equation yields g left parenthesis 0 right parenthesis equals left parenthesis 0 minus 6 right parenthesis left parenthesis 0 minus 2 right parenthesis left parenthesis 0 plus 6 right parenthesis plus 4, or g left parenthesis 0 right parenthesis equals 76. Thus, the value of g left parenthesis 0 right parenthesis is 76."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-542", "text": "A number x is at most 2 less than 3 times the value of y. If the value of y is negative 4, what is the greatest possible value of x?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": "-14", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is negative 14. It''s given that a number x is at most 2 less than 3 times the value of y. Therefore, x is less than or equal to 2 less than 3 times the value of y. The expression 3 y represents 3 times the value of y. The expression 3 y minus 2 represents 2 less than 3 times the value of y. Therefore, x is less than or equal to 3 y minus 2. This can be shown by the inequality x less than or equals 3 y minus 2. Substituting negative 4 for y in this inequality yields x less than or equals 3 left parenthesis negative 4 right parenthesis minus 2 or, x less than or equals negative 14. Therefore, if the value of y is negative 4, the greatest possible value of x is negative 14."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-543", "text": "64 x squared minus left parenthesis 16 a plus 4 b right parenthesis x plus a b equals 0\nIn the given equation, a and b are positive constants. The sum of the solutions to the given equation is k left parenthesis 4 a plus b right parenthesis, where k is a constant. What is the value of k?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": ".0625, 1/16", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is one sixteenth. Let p and q represent the solutions to the given equation. Then, the given equation can be rewritten as 64 left parenthesis x minus p right parenthesis left parenthesis x minus q right parenthesis equals 0, or 64 x squared minus 64 left parenthesis p plus q right parenthesis plus p q equals 0. Since this equation is equivalent to the given equation, it follows that minus left parenthesis 16 a plus 4 b right parenthesis equals minus 64 left parenthesis p plus q right parenthesis. Dividing both sides of this equation by negative 64 yields StartFraction 16 a plus 4 b Over 64 EndFraction equals p plus q, or one sixteenth left parenthesis 4 a plus b right parenthesis equals p plus q. Therefore, the sum of the solutions to the given equation, p plus q, is equal to one sixteenth left parenthesis 4 a plus b right parenthesis. Since it''s given that the sum of the solutions to the given equation is k left parenthesis 4 a plus b right parenthesis, where k is a constant, it follows that k equals one sixteenth. Note that 1/16, .0625, 0.062, and 0.063 are examples of ways to enter a correct answer.\nAlternate approach: The given equation can be rewritten as 64 x squared minus 4 left parenthesis 4 a plus b right parenthesis x plus a b equals 0, where a and b are positive constants. Dividing both sides of this equation by 4 yields 16 x squared minus left parenthesis 4 a plus b right parenthesis x plus StartFraction a b Over 4 EndFraction equals 0. The solutions for a quadratic equation in the form upper A x squared plus upper B x plus upper C equals 0, where upper A, upper B, and upper C are constants, can be calculated using the quadratic formula, x equals StartFraction negative upper B plus StartRoot upper B squared minus 4 upper A upper C EndRoot Over 2 upper A EndFraction and x equals StartFraction negative upper B minus StartRoot upper B squared minus 4 upper A upper C EndRoot Over 2 upper A EndFraction. It follows that the sum of the solutions to a quadratic equation in the form upper A x squared plus upper B x plus upper C equals 0 is StartFraction negative upper B plus StartRoot upper B squared minus 4 upper A upper C EndRoot Over 2 upper A EndFraction plus StartFraction negative upper B minus StartRoot upper B squared minus 4 upper A upper C EndRoot Over 2 upper A EndFraction, which can be rewritten as StartFraction negative upper B plus negative upper B plus StartRoot upper B squared minus 4 upper A upper C EndRoot minus StartRoot upper B squared minus 4 upper A upper C EndRoot Over 2 upper A EndFraction, which is equivalent to StartFraction minus 2 upper B Over 2 upper A EndFraction, or minus StartFraction upper B Over upper A EndFraction. In the equation 16 x squared minus left parenthesis 4 a plus b right parenthesis x plus StartFraction a b Over 4 EndFraction equals 0, upper A equals 16, upper B equals minus left parenthesis 4 a plus b right parenthesis, and upper C equals StartFraction a b Over 4 EndFraction. Substituting 16 for upper A and minus left parenthesis 4 a plus b right parenthesis for upper B in minus StartFraction upper B Over upper A EndFraction yields minus StartFraction minus left parenthesis 4 a plus b right parenthesis Over 16 EndFraction, which can be rewritten as one sixteenth left parenthesis 4 a plus b right parenthesis. Thus, the sum of the solutions to the given equation is one sixteenth left parenthesis 4 a plus b right parenthesis. Since it''s given that the sum of the solutions to the given equation is k left parenthesis 4 a plus b right parenthesis, where k is a constant, it follows that k equals one sixteenth."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-550", "text": "y equals x squared minus 14 x plus 22\nThe given equation relates the variables x and y. For what value of x does the value of y reach its minimum?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": "7", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is 7. When an equation is of the form y equals a x squared plus b x plus c, where a, b, and c are constants, the value of y reaches its minimum when x equals minus StartFraction b Over 2 a EndFraction. Since the given equation is of the form y equals a x squared plus b x plus c, it follows that a equals 1, b equals negative 14, and c equals 22. Therefore, the value of y reaches its minimum when x equals minus StartFraction left parenthesis negative 14 right parenthesis Over 2 left parenthesis 1 right parenthesis EndFraction, or x equals 7."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-551", "text": "If StartFraction 4 a Over b EndFraction equals 6.7 and StartFraction a Over b n EndFraction equals 26.8, what is the value of n?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": ".0625, 1/16", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is .0625. It''s given that StartFraction 4 a Over b EndFraction equals 6.7 and StartFraction a Over b n EndFraction equals 26.8. The equation StartFraction 4 a Over b EndFraction equals 6.7 can be rewritten as left parenthesis 4 right parenthesis left parenthesis StartFraction a Over b EndFraction right parenthesis equals 6.7. Dividing both sides of this equation by 4 yields StartFraction a Over b EndFraction equals 1.675. The equation StartFraction a Over b n EndFraction equals 26.8 can be rewritten as left parenthesis StartFraction a Over b EndFraction right parenthesis left parenthesis StartFraction 1 Over n EndFraction right parenthesis equals 26.8. Substituting 1.675 for StartFraction a Over b EndFraction in this equation yields left parenthesis 1.675 right parenthesis left parenthesis StartFraction 1 Over n EndFraction right parenthesis equals 26.8, or StartFraction 1.675 Over n EndFraction equals 26.8. Multiplying both sides of this equation by n yields 1.675 equals 26.8 n. Dividing both sides of this equation by 26.8 yields n equals 0.0625. Therefore, the value of n is 0.0625. Note that .0625, 0.062, 0.063, and 1/16 are examples of ways to enter a correct answer."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-552", "text": "2 StartAbsoluteValue 4 minus x EndAbsoluteValue plus 3 StartAbsoluteValue 4 minus x EndAbsoluteValue equals 25\nWhat is the positive solution to the given equation?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": "9", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is 9. The given equation can be rewritten as 5 StartAbsoluteValue 4 minus x EndAbsoluteValue equals 25. Dividing each side of this equation by 5 yields StartAbsoluteValue 4 minus x EndAbsoluteValue equals 5. By the definition of absolute value, if StartAbsoluteValue 4 minus x EndAbsoluteValue equals 5, then 4 minus x equals 5 or 4 minus x equals negative 5. Subtracting 4 from each side of the equation 4 minus x equals 5 yields negative x equals 1. Dividing each side of this equation by negative 1 yields x equals negative 1. Similarly, subtracting 4 from each side of the equation 4 minus x equals negative 5 yields negative x equals negative 9. Dividing each side of this equation by negative 1 yields x equals 9. Therefore, since the two solutions to the given equation are negative 1 and 9, the positive solution to the given equation is 9."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-553", "text": "Data set A consists of the heights of 75 objects and has a mean of 25 meters. Data set B consists of the heights of 50 objects and has a mean of 65 meters. Data set C consists of the heights of the 125 objects from data sets A and B. What is the mean, in meters, of data set C?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": "41", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is 41. The mean of a data set is computed by dividing the sum of the values in the data set by the number of values in the data set. It\u2019s given that data set A consists of the heights of 75 objects and has a mean of 25 meters. This can be represented by the equation StartFraction x Over 75 EndFraction equals 25, where x represents the sum of the heights of the objects, in meters, in data set A. Multiplying both sides of this equation by 75 yields x equals 75 left parenthesis 25 right parenthesis, or x equals 1,875 meters. Therefore, the sum of the heights of the objects in data set A is 1,875 meters. It\u2019s also given that data set B consists of the heights of 50 objects and has a mean of 65 meters. This can be represented by the equation StartFraction y Over 50 EndFraction equals 65, where y represents the sum of the heights of the objects, in meters, in data set B. Multiplying both sides of this equation by 50 yields y equals 50 left parenthesis 65 right parenthesis, or y equals 3,250 meters. Therefore, the sum of the heights of the objects in data set B is 3,250 meters. Since it\u2019s given that data set C consists of the heights of the 125 objects from data sets A and B, it follows that the mean of data set C is the sum of the heights of the objects, in meters, in data sets A and B divided by the number of objects represented in data sets A and B, or StartFraction 1,875 plus 3,250 Over 125 EndFraction, which is equivalent to 41 meters. Therefore, the mean, in meters, of data set C is 41."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-554", "text": "A small business owner budgets dollar sign 2,200 to purchase candles. The owner must purchase a minimum of 200 candles to maintain the discounted pricing. If the owner pays dollar sign 4.90 per candle to purchase small candles and dollar sign 11.60 per candle to purchase large candles, what is the maximum number of large candles the owner can purchase to stay within the budget and maintain the discounted pricing?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": "182", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is 182. Let s represent the number of small candles the owner can purchase, and let script l represent the number of large candles the owner can purchase. It\u2019s given that the owner pays dollar sign 4.90 per candle to purchase small candles and dollar sign 11.60 per candle to purchase large candles. Therefore, the owner pays 4.90 s dollars for s small candles and 11.60 script l dollars for script l large candles, which means the owner pays a total of 4.90 s plus 11.60 script l dollars to purchase candles. It\u2019s given that the owner budgets dollar sign 2,200 to purchase candles. Therefore, 4.90 s plus 11.60 script l less than or equals 2,200. It\u2019s also given that the owner must purchase a minimum of 200 candles. Therefore, s plus script l greater than or equals 200. The inequalities 4.90 s plus 11.60 script l less than or equals 2,200 and s plus script l greater than or equals 200 can be combined into one compound inequality by rewriting the second inequality so that its left-hand side is equivalent to the left-hand side of the first inequality. Subtracting script l from both sides of the inequality s plus script l greater than or equals 200 yields s greater than or equals 200 minus script l. Multiplying both sides of this inequality by 4.90 yields 4.90 s greater than or equals 4.90 left parenthesis 200 minus script l right parenthesis, or 4.90 s greater than or equals 980 minus 4.90 script l. Adding 11.60 script l to both sides of this inequality yields 4.90 s plus 11.60 script l greater than or equals 980 minus 4 period 90 script l plus 11 period 60 script l, or 4.90 s plus 11.60 script l greater than or equals 980 plus 6.70 script l. This inequality can be combined with the inequality 4.90 s plus 11.60 script l less than or equals 2,200, which yields the compound inequality 980 plus 6.70 script l less than or equals 4.90 s plus 11.60 script l less than or equals 2,200. It follows that 980 plus 6.70 script l less than or equals 2,200. Subtracting 980 from both sides of this inequality yields 6.70 script l less than or equals 2,200. Dividing both sides of this inequality by 6.70 yields approximately script l less than or equals 182.09. Since the number of large candles the owner purchases must be a whole number, the maximum number of large candles the owner can purchase is the largest whole number less than 182.09, which is 182."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-556", "text": "*{stroke-linecap:butt;stroke-linejoin:round;}\n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n\n \n \n \n \n \n \n \n .small { font: italic 13px Crimson; }\n .heavy { font: bold 30px sans-serif; }\n\n /* Note that the color of the text is set with the *\n * fill property, the color property is for HTML only */\n .Rrrrr { font: italic 40px serif; fill: red; }\n \n \n\n \n\nOne angle is a right angle.\nThe measure of a second angle is x\u00b0.\nThe length of the hypotenuse is 23.\nThe length of the leg opposite the angle with measure x\u00b0 is 16.\nA note indicates the figure is not drawn to scale.\n\nIn the triangle shown, what is the value of sine x degree?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": ".6956, .6957, 16/23", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is StartFraction 16 Over 23 EndFraction. In a right triangle, the sine of an acute angle is defined as the ratio of the length of the side opposite the angle to the length of the hypotenuse. In the triangle shown, the length of the side opposite the angle with measure x degree is 16 units and the length of the hypotenuse is 23 units. Therefore, the value of sine x degree is StartFraction 16 Over 23 EndFraction. Note that 16/23, .6956, .6957, 0.695, and 0.696 are examples of ways to enter a correct answer."}]'::jsonb);
INSERT INTO sat_tests (title, description, test_type, difficulty, length, section, is_official, time_limit_minutes, questions) VALUES ('OpenSAT Math - Hard Set 7','Official-style SAT Math practice (Hard) from OpenSAT — image-free questions only.','math','hard','medium','math',true,38,'[{"id": "opensat-math-spr-557", "text": "A circle has center upper O, and points upper R and upper S lie on the circle. In triangle upper O upper R upper S, the measure of angle upper R upper O upper S is 88 degree. What is the measure of angle upper R upper S upper O, in degrees? (Disregard the degree symbol when entering your answer.)", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": "46", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is 46. It''s given that upper O is the center of a circle and that points upper R and upper S lie on the circle. Therefore, ModifyingAbove upper O upper R With bar and ModifyingAbove upper O upper S With bar are radii of the circle. It follows that upper O upper R equals upper O upper S. If two sides of a triangle are congruent, then the angles opposite them are congruent. It follows that the angles angle upper R upper S upper O and angle upper O upper R upper S, which are across from the sides of equal length, are congruent. Let x degree represent the measure of angle upper R upper S upper O. It follows that the measure of angle upper O upper R upper S is also x degree. It''s given that the measure of angle upper R upper O upper S is 88 degree. Because the sum of the measures of the interior angles of a triangle is 180 degree, the equation x degree plus x degree plus 88 degree equals 180 degree, or 2 x plus 88 equals 180, can be used to find the measure of angle upper R upper S upper O. Subtracting 88 from both sides of this equation yields 2 x equals 92. Dividing both sides of this equation by 2 yields x equals 46. Therefore, the measure of angle upper R upper S upper O, in degrees, is 46."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-558", "text": "Data set A consists of the heights of 75 buildings and has a mean of 32 meters. Data set B consists of the heights of 50 buildings and has a mean of 62 meters. Data set C consists of the heights of the 125 buildings from data sets A and B. What is the mean, in meters, of data set C?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": "44", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is 44. The mean of a data set is computed by dividing the sum of the values in the data set by the number of values in the data set. It''s given that data set A consists of the heights of 75 buildings and has a mean of 32 meters. This can be represented by the equation StartFraction x Over 75 EndFraction equals 32, where x represents the sum of the heights of the buildings, in meters, in data set A. Multiplying both sides of this equation by 75 yields x equals 75 left parenthesis 32 right parenthesis, or x equals 2,400 meters. Therefore, the sum of the heights of the buildings in data set A is 2,400 meters. It''s also given that data set B consists of the heights of 50 buildings and has a mean of 62 meters. This can be represented by the equation StartFraction y Over 50 EndFraction equals 62, where y represents the sum of the heights of the buildings, in meters, in data set B. Multiplying both sides of this equation by 50 yields y equals 50 left parenthesis 62 right parenthesis, or y equals 3,100 meters. Therefore, the sum of the heights of the buildings in data set B is 3,100 meters. Since it''s given that data set C consists of the heights of the 125 buildings from data sets A and B, it follows that the mean of data set C is the sum of the heights of the buildings, in meters, in data sets A and B divided by the number of buildings represented in data sets A and B, or StartFraction 2,400 plus 3,100 Over 125 EndFraction, which is equivalent to 44 meters. Therefore, the mean, in meters, of data set C is 44."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-559", "text": "According to a set of standards, a certain type of substance can contain a maximum of 0.001 percent sign phosphorus by mass. If a sample of this substance has a mass of 140 grams, what is the maximum mass, in grams, of phosphorus the sample can contain to meet these standards?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": ".0014", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is .0014. It''s given that a certain type of substance can contain a maximum of 0.001 percent sign phosphorus by mass to meet a set of standards. If a sample of the substance has a mass of 140 grams, it follows that the maximum mass, in grams, of phosphorus the sample can contain to meet the standards is 0.001 percent sign of 140, or StartFraction 0.001 Over 100 EndFraction left parenthesis 140 right parenthesis, which is equivalent to left parenthesis 0.00001 right parenthesis left parenthesis 140 right parenthesis, or 0.0014. Note that .0014 and 0.001 are examples of ways to enter a correct answer."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-561", "text": "2 left parenthesis k x minus n right parenthesis equals negative StartFraction 28 Over 15 EndFraction x minus StartFraction 36 Over 19 EndFraction\nIn the given equation, k and n are constants and n greater than 1. The equation has no solution. What is the value of k?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": "-.9333, -14/15", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is negative StartFraction 14 Over 15 EndFraction. A linear equation in the form a x plus b equals c x plus d has no solution only when the coefficients of x on each side of the equation are equal and the constant terms are not equal. Dividing both sides of the given equation by 2 yields k x minus n equals minus StartFraction 28 Over 30 EndFraction x minus StartFraction 36 Over 38 EndFraction, or k x minus n equals minus StartFraction 14 Over 15 EndFraction x minus StartFraction 18 Over 19 EndFraction. Since it\u2019s given that the equation has no solution, the coefficient of x on both sides of this equation must be equal, and the constant terms on both sides of this equation must not be equal. Since StartFraction 18 Over 19 EndFraction less than 1, and it''s given that n greater than 1, the second condition is true. Thus, k must be equal to negative StartFraction 14 Over 15 EndFraction. Note that -14/15, -.9333, and -0.933 are examples of ways to enter a correct answer."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-562", "text": "210 is p percent sign greater than 30. What is the value of p?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": "600", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is 600. It\u2019s given that 210 is p percent sign greater than 30. It follows that 210 equals left parenthesis 1 plus StartFraction p Over 100 EndFraction right parenthesis left parenthesis 30 right parenthesis. Dividing both sides of this equation by 30 yields 7 equals 1 plus StartFraction p Over 100 EndFraction. Subtracting 1 from both sides of this equation yields 6 equals StartFraction p Over 100 EndFraction. Multiplying both sides of this equation by 100 yields p equals 600. Therefore, the value of p is 600."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-567", "text": "three halves y minus one fourth x equals two thirds minus three halves y\none half x plus three halves equals p y plus nine halves\nIn the given system of equations, p is a constant. If the system has no solution, what is the value of p?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": "6", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is 6. A system of two linear equations in two variables, x and y, has no solution if the lines represented by the equations in the xy-plane are parallel and distinct. Lines represented by equations in standard form, upper A x plus upper B y equals upper C and upper D x plus upper E y equals upper F, are parallel if the coefficients for x and y in one equation are proportional to the corresponding coefficients in the other equation, meaning StartFraction upper D Over upper A EndFraction equals StartFraction upper E Over upper B EndFraction; and the lines are distinct if the constants are not proportional, meaning StartFraction upper F Over upper C EndFraction is not equal to StartFraction upper D Over upper A EndFraction or StartFraction upper E Over upper B EndFraction. The first equation in the given system is three halves y minus one fourth x equals two thirds minus three halves y. Multiplying each side of this equation by 12 yields 18 y minus 3 x equals 8 minus 18 y. Adding 18 y to each side of this equation yields 36 y minus 3 x equals 8, or minus 3 x plus 36 y equals 8. The second equation in the given system is one half x plus three halves equals p y plus nine halves. Multiplying each side of this equation by 2 yields x plus 3 equals 2 p y plus 9. Subtracting 2 p y from each side of this equation yields x plus 3 minus 2 p y equals 9. Subtracting 3 from each side of this equation yields x minus 2 p y equals 6. Therefore, the two equations in the given system, written in standard form, are minus 3 x plus 36 y equals 8 andx minus 2 p y equals 6. As previously stated, if this system has no solution, the lines represented by the equations in the xy-plane are parallel and distinct, meaning the proportion StartFraction 1 Over negative 3 EndFraction equals StartFraction minus 2 p Over 36 EndFraction, or negative one third equals minus StartFraction p Over 18 EndFraction, is true and the proportion six eighths equals StartFraction 1 Over negative 3 EndFraction is not true. The proportion six eighths equals StartFraction 1 Over negative 3 EndFraction is not true. Multiplying each side of the true proportion, negative one third equals minus StartFraction p Over 18 EndFraction, by negative 18 yields 6 equals p. Therefore, if the system has no solution, then the value of p is 6."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-568", "text": "The table summarizes the distribution of age and assigned group for 90 participants in a study.\n\n \n0\u20139 years\n10\u201319 years\n20 plus years\nTotal\n\nGroup A\n7\n14\n9\n30\n\nGroup B\n6\n4\n20\n30\n\nGroup C\n17\n12\n1\n30\n\nTotal\n30\n30\n30\n90\n\nOne of these participants will be selected at random. What is the probability of selecting a participant from group A, given that the participant is at least 10 years of age? (Express your answer as a decimal or fraction, not as a percent.)", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": ".3833, 23/60", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is StartFraction 23 Over 60 EndFraction. It''s given that one of the participants will be selected at random. The probability of selecting a participant from group A given that the participant is at least 10 years of age is the number of participants in group A who are at least 10 years of age divided by the total number of participants who are at least 10 years of age. The table shows that in group A, there are 14 participants who are 10\u201319 years of age and 9 participants who are 20 plus years of age. Therefore, there are 14 plus 9, or 23, participants in group A who are at least 10 years of age. The table also shows that there are a total of 30 participants who are 10\u201319 years of age and 30 participants who are 20 plus years of age. Therefore, there are a total of 30 plus 30, or 60, participants who are at least 10 years of age. It follows that the probability of selecting a participant from group A given that the participant is at least 10 years of age is StartFraction 23 Over 60 EndFraction. Note that 23/60, .3833, and 0.383 are examples of ways to enter a correct answer."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-569", "text": "x left parenthesis k x minus 56 right parenthesis equals negative 16\nIn the given equation, k is an integer constant. If the equation has no real solution, what is the least possible value of k?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": "50", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is 50. An equation of the form a x squared plus b x plus c equals 0, where a, b, and c are constants, has no real solutions if and only if its discriminant, b squared minus 4 a c, is negative. Applying the distributive property to the left-hand side of the equation x left parenthesis k x minus 56 right parenthesis equals negative 16 yields k x squared minus 56 x equals negative 16. Adding 16 to each side of this equation yields k x squared minus 56 x plus 16 equals 0. Substituting k for a, negative 56 for b, and 16 for c in b squared minus 4 a c yields a discriminant of left parenthesis negative 56 right parenthesis squared minus 4 left parenthesis k right parenthesis left parenthesis 16 right parenthesis, or 3,136 minus 64 k. If the given equation has no real solution, it follows that the value of 3,136 minus 64 k must be negative. Therefore, 3,136 minus 64 k less than 0. Adding 64 k to both sides of this inequality yields 3,136 less than 64 k. Dividing both sides of this inequality by 64 yields 49 less than k, or k greater than 49. Since it''s given that k is an integer, the least possible value of k is 50."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-570", "text": "For the function f, f left parenthesis 0 right parenthesis equals 86, and for each increase in x by 1, the value of f left parenthesis x right parenthesis decreases by 80 percent sign. What is the value of f left parenthesis 2 right parenthesis?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": "3.44, 86/25", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is 3.44. It\u2019s given that f left parenthesis 0 right parenthesis equals 86 and that for each increase in x by 1, the value of f left parenthesis x right parenthesis decreases by 80 percent sign. Because the output of the function decreases by a constant percentage for each 1-unit increase in the value of x, this relationship can be represented by an exponential function of the form f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals a left parenthesis b right parenthesis Superscript x, where a represents the initial value of the function and b represents the rate of decay,expressed as a decimal. Because f left parenthesis 0 right parenthesis equals 86, the value of a must be 86. Because the value of f left parenthesis x right parenthesis decreases by 80 percent sign for each 1-unit increase in x, the value of b must be left parenthesis 1 minus 0 period 80 right parenthesis, or 0 period 2. Therefore, the function f can be defined by f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals 86 left parenthesis 0 period 2 right parenthesis Superscript x. Substituting 2 for x in this function yields f left parenthesis 2 right parenthesis equals 86 left parenthesis 0 period 2 right parenthesis squared, which is equivalent to f left parenthesis 2 right parenthesis equals 86 left parenthesis 0 period 04 right parenthesis, or f left parenthesis 2 right parenthesis equals 3 period 44. Either 3.44 or 86 divided by 25 may be entered as the correct answer.\nAlternate approach: It\u2019s given that f left parenthesis 0 right parenthesis equals 86 and that for each increase in x by 1, the value of f left parenthesis x right parenthesis decreases by 80 percent sign. Therefore, when x equals 1, the value of f left parenthesis x right parenthesis is left parenthesis 100 minus 80 right parenthesis percent sign, or 20 percent sign, of 86, which can be expressed as left parenthesis 0 period 20 right parenthesis left parenthesis 86 right parenthesis. Since left parenthesis 0 period 20 right parenthesis left parenthesis 86 right parenthesis equals 17 period 2, the value of f left parenthesis 1 right parenthesis is 17.2. Similarly, when x equals 2, the value of f left parenthesis x right parenthesis is 20 percent sign of 17.2, which can be expressed as left parenthesis 0 period 20 right parenthesis left parenthesis 17 period 2 right parenthesis. Since left parenthesis 0 period 20 right parenthesis left parenthesis 17 period 2 right parenthesis equals 3 period 44, the value of f left parenthesis 2 right parenthesis is 3.44. Either 3.44 or 86 divided by 25 may be entered as the correct answer."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-572", "text": "A circle in the xy-plane has a diameter with endpoints left parenthesis 2 comma 4 right parenthesis and left parenthesis 2 comma 14 right parenthesis. An equation of this circle is left parenthesis x minus 2 right parenthesis squared plus left parenthesis y minus 9 right parenthesis squared equals r squared, where r is a positive constant. What is the value of r?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": "5", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is 5. The standard form of an equation of a circle in the xy-plane is left parenthesis x minus h right parenthesis squared plus left parenthesis y minus k right parenthesis squared equals r squared, where h, k, and r are constants, the coordinates of the center of the circle are left parenthesis h comma k right parenthesis, and the length of the radius of the circle is r. It\u2032s given that an equation of the circle is left parenthesis x minus 2 right parenthesis squared plus left parenthesis y minus 9 right parenthesis squared equals r squared. Therefore, the center of this circle is left parenthesis 2 comma 9 right parenthesis. It\u2019s given that the endpoints of a diameter of the circle are left parenthesis 2 comma 4 right parenthesis and left parenthesis 2 comma 14 right parenthesis. The length of the radius is the distance from the center of the circle to an endpoint of a diameter of the circle, which can be found using the distance formula, StartRoot left parenthesis x 1 minus x 2 right parenthesis squared plus left parenthesis y 1 minus y 2 right parenthesis squared EndRoot. Substituting the center of the circle left parenthesis 2 comma 9 right parenthesis and one endpoint of the diameter left parenthesis 2 comma 4 right parenthesis in this formula gives a distance of StartRoot left parenthesis 2 minus 2 right parenthesis squared plus left parenthesis 9 minus 4 right parenthesis squared EndRoot, or StartRoot 0 squared plus 5 squared EndRoot, which is equivalent to 5. Since the distance from the center of the circle to an endpoint of a diameter is 5, the value of r is 5."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-574", "text": "The graph of 9 x minus 10 y equals 19 is translated down 4 units in the xy-plane. What is the x-coordinate of the x-intercept of the resulting graph?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": "59/9, 6.555, 6.556", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is StartFraction 59 Over 9 EndFraction. When the graph of an equation in the form upper A x plus upper B y equals upper C, where upper A, upper B, and upper C are constants, is translated down k units in the xy-plane, the resulting graph can be represented by the equation upper A x plus upper B left parenthesis y plus k right parenthesis equals upper C. It\u2019s given that the graph of 9 x minus 10 y equals 19 is translated down 4 units in the xy-plane. Therefore, the resulting graph can be represented by the equation 9 x minus 10 left parenthesis y plus 4 right parenthesis equals 19, or 9 x minus 10 y minus 40 equals 19. Adding 40 to both sides of this equation yields 9 x minus 10 y equals 59. The x-coordinate of the x-intercept of the graph of an equation in the xy-plane is the value of x in the equation when y equals 0. Substituting 0 for y in the equation 9 x minus 10 y equals 59 yields 9 x minus 10 left parenthesis 0 right parenthesis equals 59, or 9 x equals 59. Dividing both sides of this equation by 9 yields x equals StartFraction 59 Over 9 EndFraction. Therefore, the x-coordinate of the x-intercept of the resulting graph is StartFraction 59 Over 9 EndFraction. Note that 59/9, 6.555, and 6.556 are examples of ways to enter a correct answer."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-576", "text": "Line p is defined by 4 y plus 8 x equals 6. Line r is perpendicular to line p in the xy-plane. What is the slope of line r?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": ".5, 1/2", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is one half. For an equation in slope-intercept form y equals m x plus b, m represents the slope of the line in the xy-plane defined by this equation. It''s given that line p is defined by 4 y plus 8 x equals 6. Subtracting 8 x from both sides of this equation yields 4 y equals minus 8 x plus 6. Dividing both sides of this equation by 4 yields y equals minus eight fourths x plus six fourths, or y equals minus 2 x plus three halves. Thus, the slope of line p is negative 2. If line r is perpendicular to line p, then the slope of line r is the negative reciprocal of the slope of line p. The negative reciprocal of negative 2 is minus StartFraction 1 Over left parenthesis negative 2 right parenthesis EndFraction equals one half. Note that 1/2 and .5 are examples of ways to enter a correct answer."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-578", "text": "Triangle upper A upper B upper C is similar to triangle upper D upper E upper F, where angle upper A corresponds to angle upper D and angle upper C corresponds to angle upper F. Angles upper C and upper F are right angles. If tangent left parenthesis upper A right parenthesis equals StartFraction 50 Over 7 EndFraction, what is the value of tangent left parenthesis upper E right parenthesis?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": ".14, 7/50", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is seven fiftieths. It''s given that triangle upper A upper B upper C is similar to triangle upper D upper E upper F, where angle upper A corresponds to angle upper D and angle upper C corresponds to angle upper F. In similar triangles, the tangents of corresponding angles are equal. Since angle upper A and angle upper D are corresponding angles, if tangent left parenthesis upper A right parenthesis equals StartFraction 50 Over 7 EndFraction, then tangent left parenthesis upper D right parenthesis equals StartFraction 50 Over 7 EndFraction. It''s also given that angles upper C and upper F are right angles. It follows that triangle upper D upper E upper F is a right triangle with acute angles upper D and upper E. The tangent of one acute angle in a right triangle is the inverse of the tangent of the other acute angle in the triangle. Therefore, tangent left parenthesis upper E right parenthesis equals StartFraction 1 Over tangent left parenthesis upper D right parenthesis EndFraction. Substituting StartFraction 50 Over 7 EndFraction for tangent left parenthesis upper D right parenthesis in this equation yields tangent left parenthesis upper E right parenthesis equals StartStartFraction 1 OverOver StartFraction 50 Over 7 EndFraction EndEndFraction, or tangent left parenthesis upper E right parenthesis equals seven fiftieths. Thus, if tangent left parenthesis upper A right parenthesis equals StartFraction 50 Over 7 EndFraction, the value of tangent left parenthesis upper E right parenthesis is seven fiftieths. Note that 7/50 and .14 are examples of ways to enter a correct answer."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-579", "text": "Point upper O is the center of a circle. The measure of arc upper R upper S on this circle is 100 degree. What is the measure, in degrees, of its associated angle upper R upper O upper S?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": "100", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is 100. It''s given that point upper O is the center of a circle and the measure of arc upper R upper S on the circle is 100 degree. It follows that points upper R and upper S lie on the circle. Therefore, ModifyingAbove upper O upper R With bar and ModifyingAbove upper O upper S With bar are radii of the circle. A central angle is an angle formed by two radii of a circle, with its vertex at the center of the circle. Therefore, angle upper R upper O upper S is a central angle. Because the degree measure of an arc is equal to the measure of its associated central angle, it follows that the measure, in degrees, of angle upper R upper O upper S is 100."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-580", "text": "StartRoot left parenthesis x minus 2 right parenthesis squared EndRoot equals StartRoot 3 x plus 34 EndRoot\nWhat is the smallest solution to the given equation?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": "-3", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is negative 3. Squaring both sides of the given equation yields left parenthesis x minus 2 right parenthesis squared equals 3 x plus 34, which can be rewritten as x squared minus 4 x plus 4 equals 3 x plus 34. Subtracting 3 x and 34 from both sides of this equation yields x squared minus 7 x minus 30 equals 0. This quadratic equation can be rewritten as left parenthesis x minus 10 right parenthesis left parenthesis x plus 3 right parenthesis equals 0. According to the zero product property, left parenthesis x minus 10 right parenthesis left parenthesis x plus 3 right parenthesis equals zero when either x minus 10 equals 0 or x plus 3 equals 0. Solving each of these equations for x yields x equals 10 or x equals negative 3. Therefore, the given equation has two solutions, 10 and negative 3. Of these two solutions, negative 3 is the smallest solution to the given equation."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-581", "text": "*{stroke-linecap:butt;stroke-linejoin:round;}\n \n\nMoving from left to right, the points have the following coordinates:\n\n(negative 3 comma 4)\n(4 comma negative 3)\n(5 comma 3)\n\nWhat is the area, in square units, of the triangle formed by connecting the three points shown?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": "24.5, 49/2", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is 24.5. It''s given that a triangle is formed by connecting the three points shown, which are left parenthesis negative 3 comma 4 right parenthesis, left parenthesis 5 comma 3 right parenthesis, and left parenthesis 4 comma negative 3 right parenthesis. Let this triangle be triangle A. The area of triangle A can be found by calculating the area of the rectangle that circumscribes it and subtracting the areas of the three triangles that are inside the rectangle but outside triangle A. The rectangle formed by the points left parenthesis negative 3 comma 4 right parenthesis, left parenthesis 5 comma 4 right parenthesis, left parenthesis 5 comma negative 3 right parenthesis, and left parenthesis negative 3 comma negative 3 right parenthesis circumscribes triangle A. The width, in units, of this rectangle can be found by calculating the distance between the points left parenthesis 5 comma 4 right parenthesis and left parenthesis 5 comma negative 3 right parenthesis. This distance is 4 minus left parenthesis negative 3 right parenthesis, or 7. The length, in units, of this rectangle can be found by calculating the distance between the points left parenthesis 5 comma 4 right parenthesis and left parenthesis negative 3 comma 4 right parenthesis. This distance is 5 minus left parenthesis negative 3 right parenthesis, or 8. It follows that the area, in square units, of the rectangle is left parenthesis 7 right parenthesis left parenthesis 8 right parenthesis, or 56. One of the triangles that lies inside the rectangle but outside triangle A is formed by the points left parenthesis negative 3 comma 4 right parenthesis, left parenthesis 5 comma 4 right parenthesis, and left parenthesis 5 comma 3 right parenthesis. The length, in units, of a base of this triangle can be found by calculating the distance between the points left parenthesis 5 comma 4 right parenthesis and left parenthesis 5 comma 3 right parenthesis. This distance is 4 minus 3, or 1. The corresponding height, in units, of this triangle can be found by calculating the distance between the points left parenthesis 5 comma 4 right parenthesis and left parenthesis negative 3 comma 4 right parenthesis. This distance is 5 minus left parenthesis negative 3 right parenthesis, or 8. It follows that the area, in square units, of this triangle is one half left parenthesis 8 right parenthesis left parenthesis 1 right parenthesis, or 4. A second triangle that lies inside the rectangle but outside triangle A is formed by the points left parenthesis 4 comma negative 3 right parenthesis, left parenthesis 5 comma 3 right parenthesis, and left parenthesis 5 comma negative 3 right parenthesis. The length, in units, of a base of this triangle can be found by calculating the distance between the points left parenthesis 5 comma 3 right parenthesis and left parenthesis 5 comma negative 3 right parenthesis. This distance is 3 minus left parenthesis negative 3 right parenthesis , or 6. The corresponding height, in units, of this triangle can be found by calculating the distance between the points left parenthesis 5 comma negative 3 right parenthesis and left parenthesis 4 comma negative 3 right parenthesis. This distance is 5 minus 4, or 1. It follows that the area, in square units, of this triangle is one half left parenthesis 1 right parenthesis left parenthesis 6 right parenthesis, or 3. The third triangle that lies inside the rectangle but outside triangle A is formed by the points left parenthesis negative 3 comma 4 right parenthesis, left parenthesis negative 3 comma negative 3 right parenthesis, and left parenthesis 4 comma negative 3 right parenthesis. The length, in units, of a base of this triangle can be found by calculating the distance between the points left parenthesis 4 comma negative 3 right parenthesis and left parenthesis negative 3 comma negative 3 right parenthesis. This distance is 4 minus left parenthesis negative 3 right parenthesis, or 7. The corresponding height, in units, of this triangle can be found by calculating the distance between the points left parenthesis negative 3 comma 4 right parenthesis and left parenthesis negative 3 comma negative 3 right parenthesis. This distance is 4 minus left parenthesis negative 3 right parenthesis, or 7. It follows that the area, in square units, of this triangle is one half left parenthesis 7 right parenthesis left parenthesis 7 right parenthesis, or 24.5. Thus, the area, in square units, of the triangle formed by connecting the three points shown is 56 minus 4 minus 3 minus 24.5, or 24.5. Note that 24.5 and 49/2 are examples of ways to enter a correct answer."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-582", "text": "A right triangle has legs with lengths of 24 centimeters and 21 centimeters. If the length of this triangle''s hypotenuse, in centimeters, can be written in the form 3 StartRoot d EndRoot, where d is an integer, what is the value of d?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": "113", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is 113. It''s given that the legs of a right triangle have lengths 24 centimeters and 21 centimeters. In a right triangle, the square of the length of the hypotenuse is equal to the sum of the squares of the lengths of the two legs. It follows that if h represents the length, in centimeters, of the hypotenuse of the right triangle, h squared equals 24 squared plus 21 squared. This equation is equivalent to h squared equals 1,017. Taking the square root of each side of this equation yields h equals StartRoot 1,017 EndRoot. This equation can be rewritten as h equals StartRoot 9 dot 113 EndRoot, or h equals StartRoot 9 EndRoot dot StartRoot 113 EndRoot. This equation is equivalent to h equals 3 StartRoot 113 EndRoot. It''s given that the length of the triangle''s hypotenuse, in centimeters, can be written in the form 3 StartRoot d EndRoot. It follows that the value of d is 113."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-583", "text": "A rectangular poster has an area of 360 square inches. A copy of the poster is made in which the length and width of the original poster are each increased by 20 percent sign. What is the area of the copy, in square inches?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": "2592/5, 518.4", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is 518.4. It''s given that the area of the original poster is 360 square inches. Let script l represent the length, in inches, of the original poster, and let w represent the width, in inches, of the original poster. Since the area of a rectangle is equal to its length times its width, it follows that 360 equals script l w. It''s also given that a copy of the poster is made in which the length and width of the original poster are each increased by 20 percent sign. It follows that the length of the copy is the length of the original poster plus 20 percent sign of the length of the original poster, which is equivalent to script l plus StartFraction 20 Over 100 EndFraction script l inches. This length can be rewritten as script l plus 0.2 script l inches, or 1.2 script l inches. Similarly, the width of the copy is the width of the original poster plus 20 percent sign of the width of the original poster, which is equivalent to w plus StartFraction 20 Over 100 EndFraction w inches. This width can be rewritten as w plus 0.2 w inches, or 1.2 w inches. Since the area of a rectangle is equal to its length times its width, it follows that the area, in square inches, of the copy is equal to left parenthesis 1.2 script l right parenthesis left parenthesis 1.2 w right parenthesis, which can be rewritten as left parenthesis 1.2 right parenthesis left parenthesis 1.2 right parenthesis left parenthesis script l w right parenthesis. Since 360 equals script l w, the area, in square inches, of the copy can be found by substituting 360 for script l w in the expression left parenthesis 1.2 right parenthesis left parenthesis 1.2 right parenthesis left parenthesis script l w right parenthesis, which yields left parenthesis 1.2 right parenthesis left parenthesis 1.2 right parenthesis left parenthesis 360 right parenthesis, or 518.4. Therefore, the area of the copy, in square inches, is 518.4."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-585", "text": "x squared plus y plus 7 equals 7\n20 x plus 100 minus y equals 0\nThe solution to the given system of equations is left parenthesis x comma y right parenthesis. What is the value of x?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": "-10", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is negative 10. Adding y to both sides of the second equation in the given system yields 20 x plus 100 equals y. Substituting 20 x plus 100 for y in the first equation in the given system yields x squared plus 20 x plus 100 plus 7 equals 7. Subtracting 7 from both sides of this equation yields x squared plus 20 x plus 100 equals 0. Factoring the left-hand side of this equation yields left parenthesis x plus 10 right parenthesis left parenthesis x plus 10 right parenthesis equals 0, or left parenthesis x plus 10 right parenthesis squared equals 0. Taking the square root of both sides of this equation yields x plus 10 equals 0. Subtracting 10 from both sides of this equation yields x equals negative 10. Therefore, the value of x is negative 10."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-588", "text": "x\ny\n\n21\nnegative 8\n\n23\n8\n\n25\nnegative 8\n\nThe table shows three values of x and their corresponding values of y, where y equals f left parenthesis x right parenthesis plus 4 and f is a quadratic function. What is the y-coordinate of the y-intercept of the graph of y equals f left parenthesis x right parenthesis in the xy-plane?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": "-2112", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is negative 2,112. It''s given that f is a quadratic function. It follows that f can be defined by an equation of the form f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals a left parenthesis x minus h right parenthesis squared plus k, where a, h, and k are constants. It''s also given that the table shows three values of x and their corresponding values of y, where y equals f left parenthesis x right parenthesis plus 4. Substituting a left parenthesis x minus h right parenthesis squared plus k for f left parenthesis x right parenthesis in this equation yields y equals a left parenthesis x minus h right parenthesis squared plus k plus 4. This equation represents a quadratic relationship between x and y, where k plus 4 is either the maximum or the minimum value of y, which occurs when x equals h. For quadratic relationships between x and y, the maximum or minimum value of y occurs at the value of x halfway between any two values of x that have the same corresponding value of y. The table shows that x-values of 21 and 25 correspond to the same y-value, negative 8. Since 23 is halfway between 21 and 25, the maximum or minimum value of y occurs at an x-value of 23. The table shows that when x equals 23, y equals 8. It follows that h equals 23 and k plus 4 equals 8. Subtracting 4 from both sides of the equation k plus 4 equals 8 yields k equals 4. Substituting 23 for h and 4 for k in the equation y equals a left parenthesis x minus h right parenthesis squared plus k plus 4 yields y equals a left parenthesis x minus 23 right parenthesis squared plus 4 plus 4, or y equals a left parenthesis x minus 23 right parenthesis squared plus 8. The value of a can be found by substituting any x-value and its corresponding y-value for x and y, respectively, in this equation. Substituting 25 for x and negative 8 for y in this equation yields negative 8 equals a left parenthesis 25 minus 23 right parenthesis squared plus 8, or negative 8 equals a left parenthesis 2 right parenthesis squared plus 8. Subtracting 8 from both sides of this equation yields negative 16 equals a left parenthesis 2 right parenthesis squared, or negative 16 equals 4 a. Dividing both sides of this equation by 4 yields negative 4 equals a. Substituting negative 4 for a, 23 for h, and 4 for k in the equation f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals a left parenthesis x minus h right parenthesis squared plus k yields f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals minus 4 left parenthesis x minus 23 right parenthesis squared plus 4. The y-intercept of the graph of y equals f left parenthesis x right parenthesis in the xy-plane is the point on the graph where x equals 0. Substituting 0 for x in the equation f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals minus 4 left parenthesis x minus 23 right parenthesis squared plus 4 yields f left parenthesis 0 right parenthesis equals minus 4 left parenthesis 0 minus 23 right parenthesis squared plus 4, or f left parenthesis 0 right parenthesis equals minus 4 left parenthesis negative 23 right parenthesis squared plus 4. This is equivalent to f left parenthesis 0 right parenthesis equals negative 2,112, so the y-intercept of the graph of y equals f left parenthesis x right parenthesis in the xy-plane is left parenthesis 0 comma negative 2,112 right parenthesis. Thus, the y-coordinate of the y-intercept of the graph of y equals f left parenthesis x right parenthesis in the xy-plane is negative 2,112."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-589", "text": "Triangle upper A upper B upper C is similar to triangle upper D upper E upper F, where angle upper A corresponds to angle upper D and angles upper C and upper F are right angles. The length of line segment upper A upper B is 2.9 times the length of line segment upper D upper E. If tangent upper A equals StartFraction 21 Over 20 EndFraction, what is the value of sine upper D?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": ".7241, 21/29", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is StartFraction 21 Over 29 EndFraction. It''s given that triangle upper A upper B upper C is similar to triangle upper D upper E upper F, where angle upper A corresponds to angle upper D and angles upper C and upper F are right angles. In similar triangles, the tangents of corresponding angles are equal. Therefore, if tangent upper A equals StartFraction 21 Over 20 EndFraction, then tangent upper D equals StartFraction 21 Over 20 EndFraction. In a right triangle, the tangent of an acute angle is the ratio of the length of the leg opposite the angle to the length of the leg adjacent to the angle. Therefore, in triangle upper D upper E upper F, if tangent upper D equals StartFraction 21 Over 20 EndFraction, the ratio of the length of line segment upper E upper F to the length of line segment upper D upper F is StartFraction 21 Over 20 EndFraction. If the lengths of line segment upper E upper F and line segment upper D upper F are 21 and 20, respectively, then the ratio of the length of line segment upper E upper F to the length of line segment upper D upper F is StartFraction 21 Over 20 EndFraction. In a right triangle, the sine of an acute angle is the ratio of the length of the leg opposite the angle to the length of the hypotenuse. Therefore, the value of sine upper D is the ratio of the length of line segment upper E upper F to the length of line segment upper D upper E. The length of line segment upper D upper E can be calculated using the Pythagorean theorem, which states that if the lengths of the legs of a right triangle are a and b and the length of the hypotenuse is c, then a squared plus b squared equals c squared. Therefore, if the lengths of line segment upper E upper F and line segment upper D upper F are 21 and 20, respectively, then left parenthesis 21 right parenthesis squared plus left parenthesis 20 right parenthesis squared equals left parenthesis upper D upper E right parenthesis squared, or 841 equals left parenthesis upper D upper E right parenthesis squared. Taking the positive square root of both sides of this equation yields 29 equals upper D upper E. Therefore, if the lengths of line segment upper E upper F and line segment upper D upper F are 21 and 20, respectively, then the length of line segment upper D upper E is 29 and the ratio of the length of line segment upper E upper F to the length of line segment upper D upper E is StartFraction 21 Over 29 EndFraction. Thus, if tangent upper A equals StartFraction 21 Over 20 EndFraction, the value of sine upper D is StartFraction 21 Over 29 EndFraction. Note that 21/29, .7241, and 0.724 are examples of ways to enter a correct answer."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-590", "text": "The perimeter of an equilateral triangle is 624 centimeters. The height of this triangle is k StartRoot 3 EndRoot centimeters, where k is a constant. What is the value of k?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": "104", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is 104. An equilateral triangle is a triangle in which all three sides have the same length and all three angles have a measure of 60 degree. The height of the triangle, k StartRoot 3 EndRoot, is the length of the altitude from one vertex. The altitude divides the equilateral triangle into two congruent 30-60-90 right triangles, where the altitude is the side across from the 60 degree angle in each 30-60-90 right triangle. Since the altitude has a length of k StartRoot 3 EndRoot, it follows from the properties of 30-60-90 right triangles that the side across from each 30 degree angle has a length of k and each hypotenuse has a length of 2 k. In this case, the hypotenuse of each 30-60-90 right triangle is a side of the equilateral triangle; therefore, each side length of the equilateral triangle is 2 k. The perimeter of a triangle is the sum of the lengths of each side. It''s given that the perimeter of the equilateral triangle is 624; therefore, 2 k plus 2 k plus 2 k equals 624, or 6 k equals 624. Dividing both sides of this equation by 6 yields k equals 104."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-591", "text": "The scatterplot shows the relationship between the length of time y, in hours, a certain bird spent in flight and the number of days after January 11, x.\n\n*{stroke-linecap:butt;stroke-linejoin:round;}\n \n\nThe scatterplot has 10 data points.\nThe data points are spread out.\nThe data points have the following coordinates:\n\n(1 comma 14)\n(2 comma 6)\n(3 comma 10)\n(4 comma 15)\n(5 comma 14.2)\n(6 comma 7)\n(7 comma 11)\n(8 comma 14)\n(9 comma 13.5)\n(10 comma 13.2)\n\nWhat is the average rate of change, in hours per day, of the length of time the bird spent in flight on January 13 to the length of time the bird spent in flight on January 15?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": "4.5, 9/2", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is nine halves. It''s given that the scatterplot shows the relationship between the length of time y, in hours, a certain bird spent in flight and the number of days after January 11, x. Since January 13 is 2 days after January 11, it follows that January 13 corresponds to an x-value of 2 in the scatterplot. In the scatterplot, when x equals 2, the corresponding value of y is 6. In other words, on January 13, the bird spent 6 hours in flight. Since January 15 is 4 days after January 11, it follows that January 15 corresponds to an x-value of 4 in the scatterplot. In the scatterplot, when x equals 4, the corresponding value of y is 15. In other words, on January 15, the bird spent 15 hours in flight. Therefore, the average rate of change, in hours per day, of the length of time the bird spent in flight on January 13 to the length of time the bird spent in flight on January 15 is the difference in the length of time, in hours, the bird spent in flight divided by the difference in the number of days after January 11, or StartFraction 15 minus 6 Over 4 minus 2 EndFraction, which is equivalent to nine halves. Note that 9/2 and 4.5 are examples of ways to enter a correct answer."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-597", "text": "x left parenthesis x plus 1 right parenthesis minus 56 equals 4 x left parenthesis x minus 7 right parenthesis\nWhat is the sum of the solutions to the given equation?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": "29/3, 9.666, 9.667", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is StartFraction 29 Over 3 EndFraction. Applying the distributive property to the left-hand side of the given equation, x left parenthesis x plus 1 right parenthesis minus 56, yields x squared plus x minus 56. Applying the distributive property to the right-hand side of the given equation, 4 x left parenthesis x minus 7 right parenthesis, yields 4 x squared minus 28 x. Thus, the equation becomes x squared plus x minus 56 equals 4 x squared minus 28 x. Combining like terms on the left- and right-hand sides of this equation yields 0 equals left parenthesis 4 x squared minus x squared right parenthesis plus left parenthesis minus 28 x minus x right parenthesis plus 56, or 3 x squared minus 29 x plus 56 equals 0. For a quadratic equation in the form a x squared plus b x plus c equals 0, where a, b, and c are constants, the quadratic formula gives the solutions to the equation in the form x equals StartFraction left parenthesis negative b plus or minus StartRoot b squared minus 4 a c EndRoot right parenthesis Over 2 a EndFraction. Substituting 3 for a, negative 29 for b, and 56 for c from the equation 3 x squared minus 29 x plus 56 equals 0 into the quadratic formula yields x equals StartFraction left parenthesis 29 plus or minus StartRoot left parenthesis negative 29 right parenthesis squared minus 4 left parenthesis 3 right parenthesis left parenthesis 56 right parenthesis EndRoot right parenthesis Over 2 left parenthesis 3 right parenthesis EndFraction, or x equals StartFraction 29 Over 6 EndFraction plus or minus StartFraction 13 Over 6 EndFraction. It follows that the solutions to the given equation are StartFraction 29 Over 6 EndFraction plus StartFraction 13 Over 6 EndFraction and StartFraction 29 Over 6 EndFraction minus StartFraction 13 Over 6 EndFraction. Adding these two solutions gives the sum of the solutions: StartFraction 29 Over 6 EndFraction plus StartFraction 13 Over 6 EndFraction plus StartFraction 29 Over 6 EndFraction minus StartFraction 13 Over 6 EndFraction, which is equivalent to StartFraction 29 Over 6 EndFraction plus StartFraction 29 Over 6 EndFraction, or StartFraction 29 Over 3 EndFraction. Note that 29/3, 9.666, and 9.667 are examples of ways to enter a correct answer."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-600", "text": "y equals negative 1.50\ny equals x squared plus 8 x plus a\nIn the given system of equations, a is a positive constant. The system has exactly one distinct real solution. What is the value of a?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": "14.5, 29/2", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is StartFraction 29 Over 2 EndFraction. According to the first equation in the given system, the value of y is negative 1.5. Substituting negative 1.5 for y in the second equation in the given system yields negative 1.5 equals x squared plus 8 x plus a. Adding 1.5 to both sides of this equation yields 0 equals x squared plus 8 x plus a plus 1.5. If the given system has exactly one distinct real solution, it follows that 0 equals x squared plus 8 x plus a plus 1.5 has exactly one distinct real solution. A quadratic equation in the form 0 equals p x squared plus q x plus r, where p, q, and r are constants, has exactly one distinct real solution if and only if the discriminant, q squared minus 4 p r, is equal to 0. The equation 0 equals x squared plus 8 x plus a plus 1.5 is in this form, where p equals 1, q equals 8, and r equals a plus 1.5. Therefore, the discriminant of the equation 0 equals x squared plus 8 x plus a plus 1.5 is left parenthesis 8 right parenthesis squared minus 4 left parenthesis 1 right parenthesis left parenthesis a plus 1.5 right parenthesis, or 58 minus 4 a. Setting the discriminant equal to 0 to solve for a yields 58 minus 4 a equals 0. Adding 4 a to both sides of this equation yields 58 equals 4 a. Dividing both sides of this equation by 4 yields StartFraction 58 Over 4 EndFraction equals a, or StartFraction 29 Over 2 EndFraction equals a. Therefore, if the given system of equations has exactly one distinct real solution, the value of a is StartFraction 29 Over 2 EndFraction. Note that 29/2 and 14.5 are examples of ways to enter a correct answer."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-603", "text": "In the xy-plane, line script l passes through the point left parenthesis 0 comma 0 right parenthesis and is parallel to the line represented by the equation y equals 8 x plus 2. If line script l also passes through the point left parenthesis 3 comma d right parenthesis, what is the value of d?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": "24", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is 24. A line in the xy-plane can be defined by the equation y equals m x plus b, where m is the slope of the line and b is the y-coordinate of the y-intercept of the line. It''s given that line script l passes through the point left parenthesis 0 comma 0 right parenthesis. Therefore, the y-coordinate of the y-intercept of line script l is 0. It''s given that line script l is parallel to the line represented by the equation y equals 8 x plus 2. Since parallel lines have the same slope, it follows that the slope of line script l is 8. Therefore, line script l can be defined by an equation in the form y equals m x plus b, where m equals 8 and b equals 0. Substituting 8 for m and 0 for b in y equals m x plus b yields the equation y equals 8 x plus 0, or y equals 8 x . If line script l passes through the point left parenthesis 3 comma d right parenthesis, then when x equals 3, y equals d for the equation y equals 8 x. Substituting 3 for x and d for y in the equation y equals 8 x yields d equals 8 left parenthesis 3 right parenthesis, or d equals 24."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-607", "text": "48 x minus 72 y equals 30 y plus 24\nr y equals one sixth minus 16 x\nIn the given system of equations, r is a constant. If the system has no solution, what is the value of r?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": "-34", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is negative 34. A system of two linear equations in two variables, x and y, has no solution if the lines represented by the equations in the xy-plane are distinct and parallel. Two lines represented by equations in standard form upper A x plus upper B y equals upper C, where upper A, upper B, and upper C are constants, are parallel if the coefficients for x and y in one equation are proportional to the corresponding coefficients in the other equation. The first equation in the given system can be written in standard form by subtracting 30 y from both sides of the equation to yield 48 x minus 102 y equals 24. The second equation in the given system can be written in standard form by adding 16 x to both sides of the equation to yield 16 x plus r y equals one sixth. The coefficient of x in this second equation, 16, is one third times the coefficient of x in the first equation, 48. For the lines to be parallel the coefficient of y in the second equation, r, must also be one third times the coefficient of y in the first equation, negative 102. Thus, r equals one third left parenthesis negative 102 right parenthesis, or r equals negative 34. Therefore, if the given system has no solution, the value of r is negative 34."}]'::jsonb);
INSERT INTO sat_tests (title, description, test_type, difficulty, length, section, is_official, time_limit_minutes, questions) VALUES ('OpenSAT Math - Hard Set 8','Official-style SAT Math practice (Hard) from OpenSAT — image-free questions only.','math','hard','short','math',true,21,'[{"id": "opensat-math-spr-608", "text": "From left to right, horizontal line segment upper P upper V includes the following points:\n\nUpper P\nUpper Q\nUpper R\nUpper S\nUpper T\nUpper V\n\nPoints upper X and upper U are each below line segment upper P upper V.\nFrom left to right, the following 2 overlapping triangles are formed between points on line segment upper P upper V and points upper X and upper U:\n\nTriangle upper Q upper X upper S\nTriangle upper R upper U upper T\n\nLine segments upper R upper U and upper S upper X intersect at point upper W.\nA note indicates the figure is not drawn to scale.\n\nIn the figure shown, points upper Q, upper R, upper S, and upper T lie on line segment upper P upper V, and line segment upper R upper U intersects line segment upper S upper X at point upper W. The measure of angle upper S upper Q upper X is 48 degree, the measure of angle upper S upper X upper Q is 86 degree, the measure of angle upper S upper W upper U is 85 degree, and the measure of angle upper V upper T upper U is 162 degree. What is the measure, in degrees, of angle upper T upper U upper R?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": "123", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is 123. The triangle angle sum theorem states that the sum of the measures of the interior angles of a triangle is 180 degrees. It''s given that the measure of angle upper S upper Q upper X is 48 degree and the measure of angle upper S upper X upper Q is 86 degree. Since points upper S, upper Q, and upper X form a triangle, it follows from the triangle angle sum theorem that the measure, in degrees, of angle upper Q upper S upper X is 180 minus 48 minus 86, or 46. It''s also given that the measure of angle upper S upper W upper U is 85 degree. Since angle upper S upper W upper U and angle upper S upper W upper R are supplementary angles, the sum of their measures is 180 degrees. It follows that the measure, in degrees, of angle upper S upper W upper R is 180 minus 85, or 95. Since points upper R, upper S, and upper W form a triangle, and angle upper R upper S upper W is the same angle as angle upper Q upper S upper X, it follows from the triangle angle sum theorem that the measure, in degrees, of angle upper W upper R upper S is 180 minus 46 minus 95, or 39. It''s given that the measure of angle upper V upper T upper U is 162 degree. Since angle upper V upper T upper U and angle upper S upper T upper U are supplementary angles, the sum of their measures is 180 degrees. It follows that the measure, in degrees, of angle upper S upper T upper U is 180 minus 162, or 18. Since points upper R, upper T, and upper U form a triangle, and angle upper U upper R upper T is the same angle as angle upper W upper R upper S, it follows from the triangle angle sum theorem that the measure, in degrees, of angle upper T upper U upper R is 180 minus 39 minus 18, or 123."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-609", "text": "Data set A consists of 10 positive integers less than 60. The list shown gives 9 of the integers from data set A.\n43, 45, 44, 43, 38, 39, 40, 46, 40\nThe mean of these 9 integers is 42. If the mean of data set A is an integer that is greater than 42, what is the value of the largest integer from data set A?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": "52", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is 52. The mean of a data set is calculated by dividing the sum of the data values by the number of values. It\u2019s given that data set A consists of 10 values, 9 of which are shown. Let x represent the 10 th data value in data set A, which isn\u2019t shown. The mean of data set A can be found using the expression StartFraction 43 plus 45 plus 44 plus 43 plus 38 plus 39 plus 40 plus 46 plus 40 plus x Over 10 EndFraction, or StartFraction 378 plus x Over 10 EndFraction. It\u2019s given that the mean of the 9 values shown is 42 and that the mean of all 10 numbers is greater than 42. Consequently, the 10 th data value, x, is larger than 42. It\u2019s also given that the data values in data set A are positive integers less than 60. Thus, 42 less than x less than 60. Finally, it\u2019s given that the mean of data set A is an integer. This means that the sum of the 10 data values, 378 plus x, is divisible by 10. Thus, 378 plus x must have a ones digit of 0. It follows that x must have a ones digit of 2. Since 42 less than x less than 60 and x has a ones digit of 2, the only possible value of x is 52. Since 52 is larger than any of the integers shown, the largest integer from data set A is 52."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-610", "text": "y equals 4 x plus 14 y equals 15 x minus 8\nThe solution to the given system of equations is left parenthesis x comma y right parenthesis. What is the value of x minus y?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": "35", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is 35. The first equation in the given system of equations defines y as 4 x plus 1. Substituting 4 x plus 1 for y in the second equation in the given system of equations yields 4 left parenthesis 4 x plus 1 right parenthesis equals 15 x minus 8. Applying the distributive property on the left-hand side of this equation yields 16 x plus 4 equals 15 x minus 8. Subtracting 15 x from each side of this equation yields x plus 4 equals negative 8. Subtracting 4 from each side of this equation yields x equals negative 12. Substituting negative 12 for x in the first equation of the given system of equations yields y equals 4 left parenthesis negative 12 right parenthesis plus 1, or y equals negative 47. Substituting negative 12 for x and negative 47 for y into the expression x minus y yields negative 12 minus left parenthesis negative 47 right parenthesis, or 35."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-611", "text": "The function f is defined by f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals a Superscript x Baseline plus b, where a and b are constants. In the x y-plane, the graph of y equals f left parenthesis x right parenthesis has an x-intercept at left parenthesis 2 comma 0 right parenthesis and a y-intercept at left parenthesis 0 comma negative 323 right parenthesis. What is the value of b?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": "-324", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is negative 324. It''s given that the function f is defined by f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals a Superscript x Baseline plus b, where a and b are constants. It''s also given that the graph of y equals f left parenthesis x right parenthesis has a y-intercept at left parenthesis 0 comma negative 323 right parenthesis. It follows that f left parenthesis 0 right parenthesis equals negative 323. Substituting 0 for x and negative 323 for f left parenthesis x right parenthesis in f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals a Superscript x Baseline plus b yields negative 323 equals a Superscript 0 Baseline plus b, or negative 323 equals 1 plus b. Subtracting 1 from each side of this equation yields negative 324 equals b. Therefore, the value of b is negative 324."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-612", "text": "4 x minus 6 y equals 10 y plus 2\nt y equals one half plus 2 x\nIn the given system of equations, t is a constant. If the system has no solution, what is the value of t?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": "8", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is 8. The given system of equations can be solved using the elimination method. Multiplying both sides of the second equation in the given system by negative 2 yields minus 2 t y equals negative 1 minus 4 x, or negative 1 minus 4 x equals minus 2 t y. Adding this equation to the first equation in the given system, 4 x minus 6 y equals 10 y plus 2, yields left parenthesis 4 x minus 6 y right parenthesis plus left parenthesis negative 1 minus 4 x right parenthesis equals left parenthesis 10 y plus 2 right parenthesis plus left parenthesis minus 2 t y right parenthesis, or negative 1 minus 6 y equals 10 y minus 2 t y plus 2. Subtracting 10 y from both sides of this equation yields left parenthesis negative 1 minus 6 y right parenthesis minus left parenthesis 10 y right parenthesis equals left parenthesis 10 y minus 2 t y plus 2 right parenthesis minus left parenthesis 10 y right parenthesis, or negative 1 minus 16 y equals minus 2 t y plus 2. If the given system has no solution, then the equation negative 1 minus 16 y equals minus 2 t y plus 2 has no solution. If this equation has no solution, the coefficients of y on each side of the equation, negative 16 and minus 2 t, must be equal, which yields the equation negative 16 equals minus 2 t. Dividing both sides of this equation by negative 2 yields 8 equals t. Thus, if the system has no solution, the value of t is 8.\nAlternate approach: A system of two linear equations in two variables, x and y, has no solution if the lines represented by the equations in the xy-plane are parallel and distinct. Lines represented by equations in the form upper A x plus upper B y equals upper C, where upper A, upper B, and upper C are constant terms, are parallel if the ratio of the x-coefficients is equal to the ratio of the y-coefficients, and distinct if the ratio of the x-coefficients are not equal to the ratio of the constant terms. Subtracting 10 y from both sides of the first equation in the given system yields left parenthesis 4 x minus 6 y right parenthesis minus left parenthesis 10 y right parenthesis equals left parenthesis 10 y plus 2 right parenthesis minus left parenthesis 10 y right parenthesis, or 4 x minus 16 y equals 2. Subtracting 2 x from both sides of the second equation in the given system yields left parenthesis t y right parenthesis minus left parenthesis 2 x right parenthesis equals left parenthesis one half plus 2 x right parenthesis minus left parenthesis 2 x right parenthesis, or minus 2 x plus t y equals one half. The ratio of the x-coefficients for these equations is negative two fourths, or negative one half. The ratio of the y-coefficients for these equations is minus StartFraction t Over 16 EndFraction. The ratio of the constant terms for these equations is StartFraction one half Over 2 EndFraction, or one fourth. Since the ratio of the x-coefficients, negative one half, is not equal to the ratio of the constants, one fourth, the lines represented by the equations are distinct. Setting the ratio of the x-coefficients equal to the ratio of the y-coefficients yields negative one half equals minus StartFraction t Over 16 EndFraction. Multiplying both sides of this equation by negative 16 yields left parenthesis negative one half right parenthesis left parenthesis negative 16 right parenthesis equals left parenthesis minus StartFraction t Over 16 EndFraction right parenthesis left parenthesis negative 16 right parenthesis, or t equals 8. Therefore, when t equals 8, the lines represented by these equations are parallel. Thus, if the system has no solution, the value of t is 8."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-615", "text": "In triangle upper J upper K upper L, cosine left parenthesis upper K right parenthesis equals StartFraction 24 Over 51 EndFraction and angle upper J is a right angle. What is the value of cosine left parenthesis upper L right parenthesis?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": ".8823, .8824, 15/17", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is StartFraction 15 Over 17 EndFraction. It''s given that angle upper J is the right angle in triangle upper J upper K upper L. Therefore, the acute angles of triangle upper J upper K upper L are angle upper K and angle upper L. The hypotenuse of a right triangle is the side opposite its right angle. Therefore, the hypotenuse of triangle upper J upper K upper L is side upper K upper L. The cosine of an acute angle in a right triangle is the ratio of the length of the side adjacent to the angle to the length of the hypotenuse. It''s given that cosine left parenthesis upper K right parenthesis equals StartFraction 24 Over 51 EndFraction. This can be written as cosine left parenthesis upper K right parenthesis equals eight seventeenths. Since the cosine of angle upper K is a ratio, it follows that the length of the side adjacent to angle upper K is 8 n and the length of the hypotenuse is 17 n, where n is a constant. Therefore, upper J upper K equals 8 n and upper K upper L equals 17 n. The Pythagorean theorem states that in a right triangle, the square of the length of the hypotenuse is equal to the sum of the squares of the lengths of the other two sides. For triangle upper J upper K upper L, it follows that left parenthesis upper J upper K right parenthesis squared plus left parenthesis upper J upper L right parenthesis squared equals left parenthesis upper K upper L right parenthesis squared. Substituting 8 n for upper J upper K and 17 n for upper K upper L yields left parenthesis 8 n right parenthesis squared plus left parenthesis upper J upper L right parenthesis squared equals left parenthesis 17 n right parenthesis squared. This is equivalent to 64 n squared plus left parenthesis upper J upper L right parenthesis squared equals 289 n squared. Subtracting 64 n squared from each side of this equation yields left parenthesis upper J upper L right parenthesis squared equals 225 n squared. Taking the square root of each side of this equation yields upper J upper L equals 15 n. Since cosine left parenthesis upper L right parenthesis equals StartFraction upper J upper L Over upper K upper L EndFraction, it follows that cosine left parenthesis upper L right parenthesis equals StartFraction 15 n Over 17 n EndFraction, which can be rewritten as cosine left parenthesis upper L right parenthesis equals StartFraction 15 Over 17 EndFraction. Note that 15/17, .8824, .8823, and 0.882 are examples of ways to enter a correct answer."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-618", "text": "minus x squared plus b x minus 676 equals 0\nIn the given equation, b is a positive integer. The equation has no real solution. What is the greatest possible value of b?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": "51", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is 51. A quadratic equation of the form a x squared plus b x plus c equals 0, where a, b, and c are constants, has no real solution if and only if its discriminant, minus 4 a c plus b squared, is negative. In the given equation, a equals negative 1 and c equals negative 676. Substituting negative 1 for a and negative 676 for c in this expression yields a discriminant of b squared minus 4 left parenthesis negative 1 right parenthesis left parenthesis negative 676 right parenthesis, or b squared minus 2,704. Since this value must be negative, b squared minus 2,704 less than 0, or b squared less than 2,704. Taking the positive square root of each side of this inequality yields b less than 52. Since b is a positive integer, and the greatest integer less than 52 is 51, the greatest possible value of b is 51."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-619", "text": "One of the factors of 2 x cubed plus 42 x squared plus 208 x is x plus b, where b is a positive constant. What is the smallest possible value of b?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": "8", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is 8. Since each term of the given expression, 2 x cubed plus 42 x squared plus 208 x, has a factor of 2 x, the expression can be rewritten as 2 x left parenthesis x squared right parenthesis plus 2 x left parenthesis 21 x right parenthesis plus 2 x left parenthesis 104 right parenthesis, or 2 x left parenthesis x squared plus 21 x plus 104 right parenthesis. Since the values 8 and 13 have a sum of 21 and a product of 104, the expression x squared plus 21 x plus 104 can be factored as left parenthesis x plus 8 right parenthesis left parenthesis x plus 13 right parenthesis. Therefore, the given expression can be factored as 2 x left parenthesis x plus 8 right parenthesis left parenthesis x plus 13 right parenthesis. It follows that the factors of the given expression are 2, x, x plus 8, and x plus 13. Of these factors, only x plus 8 and x plus 13 are of the form x plus b, where b is a positive constant. Therefore, the possible values of b are 8 and 13. Thus, the smallest possible value of b is 8."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-620", "text": "In the -plane, a line with equation intersects a parabola at exactly one point. If the parabola has equation , where is a positive constant, what is the value of ?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": "6", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is 6. It\u2019s given that a line with equation 2 y equals 4 period 5 intersects a parabola with equation y equals minus 4 x squared plus b x, where b is a positive constant, at exactly one point in the xy-plane. It follows that the system of equations consisting of 2 y equals 4 period 5 and y equals minus 4 x squared plus b x has exactly one solution. Dividing both sides of the equation of the line by 2 yields y equals 2 period 25. Substituting 2.25 for y in the equation of the parabola yields 2 period 25 equals minus 4 x squared plus b x. Adding 4 x squared and subtracting b x from both sides of this equation yields 4 x squared minus b x plus 2 period 25 equals 0. A quadratic equation in the form of a x squared plus b x plus c equals 0, where a, b, and c are constants, has exactly one solution when the discriminant, b squared minus 4 a c, is equal to zero. Substituting 4 for a and 2.25 for c in the expression b squared minus 4 a c and setting this expression equal to 0 yields b squared minus 4 left parenthesis 4 right parenthesis left parenthesis 2 period 25 right parenthesis equals 0, or b squared minus 36 equals 0. Adding 36 to each side of this equation yields b squared equals 36. Taking the square root of each side of this equation yields b equals plus or minus 6. It\u2019s given that b is positive, so the value of b is 6."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-621", "text": "In the xy-plane, a line with equation 2 y equals c for some constant c intersects a parabola at exactly one point. If the parabola has equation y equals minus 2 x squared plus 9 x, what is the value of c?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": "20.25, 81/4", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is StartFraction 81 Over 4 EndFraction. The given linear equation is 2 y equals c. Dividing both sides of this equation by 2 yields y equals StartFraction c Over 2 EndFraction. Substituting StartFraction c Over 2 EndFraction for y in the equation of the parabola yields StartFraction c Over 2 EndFraction equals minus 2 x squared plus 9 x. Adding 2 x squared and minus 9 x to both sides of this equation yields 2 x squared minus 9 x plus StartFraction c Over 2 EndFraction equals 0. Since it\u2019s given that the line and the parabola intersect at exactly one point, the equation 2 x squared minus 9 x plus StartFraction c Over 2 EndFraction equals 0 must have exactly one solution. An equation of the form upper A x squared plus upper B x plus upper C equals 0, where upper A, upper B, and upper C are constants, has exactly one solution when the discriminant, upper B squared minus 4 upper A upper C, is equal to 0. In the equation 2 x squared minus 9 x plus StartFraction c Over 2 EndFraction equals 0, where upper A equals 2, upper B equals negative 9, and upper C equals StartFraction c Over 2 EndFraction, the discriminant is left parenthesis negative 9 right parenthesis squared minus 4 left parenthesis 2 right parenthesis left parenthesis StartFraction c Over 2 EndFraction right parenthesis. Setting the discriminant equal to 0 yields left parenthesis negative 9 right parenthesis squared minus 4 left parenthesis 2 right parenthesis left parenthesis StartFraction c Over 2 EndFraction right parenthesis equals 0, or 81 minus 4 c equals 0. Adding 4 c to both sides of this equation yields 81 equals 4 c. Dividing both sides of this equation by 4 yields c equals StartFraction 81 Over 4 EndFraction. Note that 81/4 and 20.25 are examples of ways to enter a correct answer."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-626", "text": "A circle in the xy-plane has its center at left parenthesis negative 5 comma 2 right parenthesis and has a radius of 9. An equation of this circle is x squared plus y squared plus a x plus b y plus c equals 0, where a, b, and c are constants. What is the value of c?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": "-52", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is negative 52. The equation of a circle in the xy-plane with its center at left parenthesis h comma k right parenthesis and a radius of r can be written in the form left parenthesis x minus h right parenthesis squared plus left parenthesis y minus k right parenthesis squared equals r squared. It''s given that a circle in the xy-plane has its center at left parenthesis negative 5 comma 2 right parenthesis and has a radius of 9. Substituting negative 5 for h, 2 for k, and 9 for r in the equation left parenthesis x minus h right parenthesis squared plus left parenthesis y minus k right parenthesis squared equals r squared yields left parenthesis x minus left parenthesis negative 5 right parenthesis right parenthesis squared plus left parenthesis y minus 2 right parenthesis squared equals 9 squared, or left parenthesis x plus 5 right parenthesis squared plus left parenthesis y minus 2 right parenthesis squared equals 81. It''s also given that an equation of this circle is x squared plus y squared plus a x plus b y plus c equals 0, where a, b, and c are constants. Therefore, left parenthesis x plus 5 right parenthesis squared plus left parenthesis y minus 2 right parenthesis squared equals 81 can be rewritten in the form x squared plus y squared plus a x plus b y plus c equals 0. The equation left parenthesis x plus 5 right parenthesis squared plus left parenthesis y minus 2 right parenthesis squared equals 81, or left parenthesis x plus 5 right parenthesis left parenthesis x plus 5 right parenthesis plus left parenthesis y minus 2 right parenthesis left parenthesis y minus 2 right parenthesis equals 81, can be rewritten as x squared plus 5 x plus 5 x plus 25 plus y squared minus 2 y minus 2 y plus 4 equals 81. Combining like terms on the left-hand side of this equation yields x squared plus y squared plus 10 x minus 4 y plus 29 equals 81. Subtracting 81 from both sides of this equation yields x squared plus y squared plus 10 x minus 4 y minus 52 equals 0, which is equivalent to x squared plus y squared plus 10 x plus left parenthesis negative 4 right parenthesis y plus left parenthesis negative 52 right parenthesis equals 0. This equation is in the form x squared plus y squared plus a x plus b y plus c equals 0. Therefore, the value of c is negative 52."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-628", "text": "5 upper G plus 45 upper R equals 380\nAt a school fair, students can win colored tokens that are worth a different number of points depending on the color. One student won upper G green tokens and upper R red tokens worth a total of 380 points. The given equation represents this situation. How many more points is a red token worth than a green token?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": "40", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is 40. It''s given that 5 upper G plus 45 upper R equals 380, where upper G is the number of green tokens and upper R is the number of red tokens won by one student and these tokens are worth a total of 380 points. Since the equation represents the situation where the student won points with green tokens and red tokens for a total of 380 points, each term on the left-hand side of the equation represents the number of points won for one of the colors. Since the coefficient of upper G in the given equation is 5, a green token must be worth 5 points. Similarly, since the coefficient of upper R in the given equation is 45, a red token must be worth 45 points. Therefore, a red token is worth 45 minus 5 points, or 40 points, more than a green token."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-629", "text": "f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals left parenthesis x plus 7 right parenthesis squared plus 4\nThe function f is defined by the given equation. For what value of x does f left parenthesis x right parenthesis reach its minimum?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": "-7", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is negative 7. For a quadratic function defined by an equation of the form f left parenthesis x right parenthesis equals a left parenthesis x minus h right parenthesis squared plus k, where a, h, and k are constants and a greater than 0, the function reaches its minimum when x equals h. In the given function, a equals 1, h equals negative 7, and k equals 4. Therefore, the value of x for which f left parenthesis x right parenthesis reaches its minimum is negative 7."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-631", "text": "Triangle upper A upper C upper D partially overlaps triangle upper E upper B upper D.\nPoint upper C is on line segment upper B upper D.\nPoint upper E is on line segment upper A upper D.\nThe measure of angle upper A upper E upper B is x\u00b0.\nA note indicates the figure is not drawn to scale.\n\n \nIn the figure, upper A upper C equals upper C upper D. The measure of angle upper E upper B upper C is 45 degree, and the measure of angle upper A upper C upper D is 104 degree. What is the value of x?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": "83", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is 83. It''s given that in the figure, upper A upper C equals upper C upper D. Thus, triangle upper A upper C upper D is an isosceles triangle and the measure of angle upper C upper D upper A is equal to the measure of angle upper C upper A upper D. The sum of the measures of the interior angles of a triangle is 180 degree. Thus, the sum of the measures of the interior angles of triangle upper A upper C upper D is 180 degree. It''s given that the measure of angle upper A upper C upper D is 104 degree. It follows that the sum of the measures of angles upper C upper D upper A and upper C upper A upper D is left parenthesis 180 minus 104 right parenthesis degree, or 76 degree. Since the measure of angle upper C upper D upper A is equal to the measure of angle upper C upper A upper D, the measure of angle upper C upper D upper A is half of 76 degree, or 38 degree. The sum of the measures of the interior angles of triangle upper B upper D upper E is 180 degree. It''s given that the measure of angle upper E upper B upper C is 45 degree. Since the measure of angle upper B upper D upper E, which is the same angle as angle upper C upper D upper A, is 38 degree, it follows that the measure of angle upper D upper E upper B is left parenthesis 180 minus 45 minus 38 right parenthesis degree, or 97 degree. Since angle upper D upper E upper B and angle upper A upper E upper B form a straight line, the sum of the measures of these angles is 180 degree. It''s given in the figure that the measure of angle upper A upper E upper B is x degree. It follows that 97 plus x equals 180. Subtracting 97 from both sides of this equation yields x equals 83."}, {"id": "opensat-math-spr-639", "text": "The number a is 60 percent sign greater than the positive number b. The number c is 45 percent sign less than a. The number c is how many times b?", "type": "grid_in", "topic": "math", "section": "math", "correct_answer": ".88, 22/25", "difficulty": "hard", "explanation": "The correct answer is .88. It\u2019s given that the number a is 60 percent sign greater than the positive number b. Therefore, a equals left parenthesis 1 plus StartFraction 60 Over 100 EndFraction right parenthesis b, which is equivalent to a equals left parenthesis 1 plus 0.60 right parenthesis b, or a equals 1.60 b. It\u2019s also given that the number c is 45 percent sign less than a. Therefore, c equals left parenthesis 1 minus StartFraction 45 Over 100 EndFraction right parenthesis a, which is equivalent to c equals left parenthesis 1 minus 0.45 right parenthesis a, or c equals 0.55 a. Since a equals 1.60 b, substituting 1.60 b for a in the equation c equals 0.55 a yields c equals 0.55 left parenthesis 1.60 b right parenthesis, or c equals 0.88 b. Thus, the number c is 0.88 times the number b. Note that .88 and 22/25 are examples of ways to enter a correct answer."}]'::jsonb);
